10.3931/e-rara-34057

"
4J#x •."satf 't" i4 it- J ""->. JfcjKC '■£%? -'fer
% '•*7V,..-;

&J* *V.. >>' '.--V ft?/* i'l'SV't a - "v*' fy.\ rrt^j /> -r'
ft i 'p
Terra Australis Cognita ; O R, VOYAGES TO THE Terra Australis, or Southern Hemisphere, DURING THE Sixteenth, Seventeenth, and Eighteenth Centuries. CONTAINING An Account of the Manners of the People, the Pro^ ductiqns of the Countries, hitherto found in the Southern Latitudes, and the Advantages that may result from further Discoveries on this great Continent. To which is added, by the Editor, Some Thoughts on the Advantages of forming Colonies in the Terra Australis. VOL. III. Nec usquam Deus abscidit Terras oceano diflociabili. Hor, EDINBURGH: Printed for the Author; and fold by A. Donaldson, at his Shops in London and Edinburgh. MDCCLXVHI.

CONTENTS of Vol. III. BOOK III. ContinuedfromVoL.il. Containing Voyages to the Terra Australis in the Seventeenth Century. Art. T'VE Gennes to Magellanica, I XX. | J Art. XXI. Ulaming to the East-Indies by the Cape of Good Hope, 6 Art. XXII. History of the New Phillippine Istands, 9 Art. XXIII. Antony Cantova to the Caroline Istands in the East-Indies, 23 Art. XXIV. Manners and customs of the inhabitants of the Marian or Ladrone Istands in the East-Indies, 40 Art. XXV. Beauchefne Gouin to Magellanica, 56 Art. XXVI. Dampier's last voyage round the world, 66 BOOK IV. Containing Voyages to the Terra Australis in the Eighteenth Century. Art. TT'Unnell's voyage round the world, 145 I. Art. II. Fouquet and Peree to the South Seas, 227 Art. 111 . Capt. Woodes Rogers famous voyage to the South Seas, and round the world, 23 r Art. IV. Louis Feuillee to the South Seas, 379 Art. V. Monsieur Frezier's curious and useful journal of his voyage to Magellanica, 386 Art. VI. La Barbinais's voyage round the world, 439 Art. VII. Clipperton's voyage to the South Seas and East-Indies, 444 Vol. 111 , a 2 Art. a 2
iv CONTENTS. Art. VIII. Shelvocke's voyage round the world, §o% Art. IX. Commodore Roggewein's voyage round the world, with a full account of the Dutch settlements in India, 584 Art. X. Lozier Bouvet to Magellanica, 641 Art. XI. Commodore Anfon's voyage round the world, 644 The Hon. George Murray, Esq-, his account of the separation of the ships Severn and Pearl from Anfon's squadron, 654 Art. XII. Don Antonio Ulloa to the South Seas, 659 Art. XIII. Hen Brignon to Magellanica, 669 Art. XIV. Commodore Byron to the South Seas, 673 BOOK V. O F the method of forming colonies in the Terra Australis, and the advantages that may be expected to result to Great Britain from such establishments in that Hemisphere, 715 VOYAGES

JiEniJCED ( W^ / 2 T os A V S T HAL ASIA jsf th? Ill Volume i'j she C'.Jtrf'Pr'WE li T? rf eAVi (i a M d >, ^ V>l'PCrfr fn to- 23 VHESSi'l^ 1 ^ f \Coi) cor r,L tOltutrr nf ■* .I 'cO'/s ("SiZ/isy ~~'~'Ca/'fi'fr&t. J. * E p-fv^v I fAfrfe&t' A ■ ; i - i/zi/(?£yZxsjtMfi I ft-sAvr /t&MCtt AESKiin_'lEar:i.'.. ■xnL 1 M~~ xrTnm .AM nriir" a#<>:
effi T i C---- s ' . . VOYAGES TO THE TERRA A U S T R A L I S. BOOK III. continued. Containing the Discoveries made in the TERRA AUSTRALIS, during the Seventeenth Century. ARTICLE XX. DE GENNES, to MAGELLANICA. HE Journal from whence we give this extract, 1695. was written by Francis Lroger, engineer on JL board the Admiral's ship, and was printed at Lyons, 1702. Fide Voyages aux Ferr. Austr. vol. 2. p. 104. It never appeared m Engliih before. " We failed from ' Rocbetle, June 3, 1695, with six ships; the admiral of which carried 46 pieces of canon, and the vice-admiral, 32 guns and 220 men. Monsieur de Gernes had the command, and his destination was to carry the war into the South Sea, by the Straits ot Magellan. Having touched at Rio Janeiro , and run down the coast of Patagonia , during the month of January 1696, we found the sea, towards the end of the month, so tptally covered with red Vol. III. A
L DE GENNES, *696. shrimps, that, it might have been truly called the Red Sea. We took Up above ten thousand of these animals in our buckets. February 4th, we saw Cape St. Ines. The coast appeared very low and barren, yet we saw smoke enough to induce us to believe it was inhabited. Some navigators tell us, that the savages hereabouts use to kindle fires, on seeing any vessel, and offer sacrifices to the Devil, to induce him to raise tempests to destroy the strips. Soon after, we narrowly escaped running on a stioal, which we took on the word of some who had made this voyage before, to be Cafe Virgins, though that cape lay further on. EebrUary if th, we saw the cape, and having stood off and on till the fog cleared, about noon we entered the Strait, and anchored at four in the afternoon in Pofjejjion Bay. The 13th we again anchored in Boucaull Bap, where we law some whales, and grim pusses, which were all white excepting the, head and tail. The coast is flat, and quite barren, e- qually destitute of wood and water. We found some. woodcocks, and sea-fowls, and some of our people said, that, a league within land, they saw wild oxen and goats. We found here (and through the whole Strait) vast numbers of limpets and muscles, the meat of some of them weighing lulf-a-pound, and the shells finely variegated. Further on we found Penguin Island, which is about a league round. The land is high, and Very dry. Here we saw some huts of the savages, but empty, and many sea-fowls. We also catched some Penguins, whence the island has its name. These birds are larger than geese, with short feet, grey plumage, but very well feathered. Their wings have no feathers, but only serve them to swim with. They live mostly in the water, coming ashore to steep, and burrow in the earth, like rabbits. There are also great numbers of sea-lions, and some of our officers pasted the night on shore, the better to view them. They saw them get upon the steep rocks, where they fat down like monkeys, and made a terrible noise to call their
2 to MAGELLANICA. their females. When the young are brought forth, r6§6. they carry them into the woods, where they are very careful of them, and feed them with fish *, We here found the cold very violent, and the sudden changing of the winds often made us lose the ground we had gained. We often saw great fires on the Terra del Fuego , which made us conjecture that the natives wanted to speak to us, but the sea was so rough that this was impossible. February 21st, we discovered, off the island St. George, a shoal which is not laid down in the charts, and we returned to anchor in a bay, round which the coast rises agreeably, and was covered with wood. We found there some small rivulets of very good water, and on the banks cellery and other greens, with vast quantities of sea- fowls. We were at this time separated from the fleet, which we rejoined the 24th, in Port Famine , where we met with good water, but had some difficulty to get at it, on account of the rocks. Here, for the first time, we found eight or ten savages, who were busy making two smal} canoes of the bark of trees; and they begged us, by signs, nos to hurt them. They seemed to pay some deference to an old woman, who appeared to be eighty years of age. They had arrows, flings, and some little dogs for the chace. Their arrows were headed with flints, neatly shaped, in the form of a serpent's tongue; and, to cut wood, they made use of hard stones, like axes, haying no knowledge of the use of iron. These savages are of an olive colour, robust and well made. Their hair is black and long, bpt cut, on the top of the head, in form of a crown. Their faces, arms, and other parts of the body, were painted with white. In spite of the excessive cold, they * See a very particular account of these animals in Walter's Journal of Commodore Ansou's voyage, during which he saw many of them., particularly in the isle of Juan Fernandez, A 2 are
4 DE G E N N E S, 1696. are always naked, except the shoulders, tin which they '^ y ~ u wear a sea-wolf's skin. They wander from place to place, equally void of care, or any sentiment of religion, and their huts consist of nothing more than some branches of trees, set up to that' side of the fire whence the wind comes. In short, these are the Patagons , whom some authors represent as being eight or ten feet high, and able to drink whole buckets of wine at one draught. They appeared to us to be remarkably' sober, and the tallest of them was'not fix feet high. Hence we doubled Caps Forward , and having got into a very commodious bay, we staid to get wood and water from a river that falls into the bay, in the middle of which is a little island, on which we found the carcase of a man, half rotten, so that we could only julge, from the number of sea-wolves skins stuck up round him, that this was a deceased native of the country. Not finding this bay in our charts, we called it Bays Franfoise , and gave the name of M. de Gen- nes to the river. Leaving this harbour, we met with such terrible squalls of wind, from the high lands round us, that they often laid our gunwale under water, when we least th night of it, as it was often quite calm the moment before. By these squalls, we were forced back to Port Famine , so called from the unfortunate colony of Spaniards, who perished here during the reign of Philip II. while they vainly fought to prevent other nations getting by this passage into the South Sea. This bay is spacious, the anchorage good, and about lie large plains, that seem proper for agriculture, and these are filled with game of all kinds. We next got to Port Gallant , where the harbour is well sheltered from the west winds. The port is advantageously situated, and very commodious, having two rivers of good water falling into it, affording a great variety of most beautiful sea-stiells, and sea- fowis - We often heard the cries of the savages in the neighbouring
to MAGELLANIC A.' 5 neighbouring mountains, but could not fee any of 1696. them. w '-* Having struggled with contrary winds and currents till the zd of April, finding our provisions grow short, and the winter advancing apace, we now saw no prospect: of getting into the South Sea this season. We therefore called a council, in which it was resolved, in case the wind did not change in two days, to return to llha Grande , where we might find provisions. It is not possible to express the uneasiness this unavoidable step occasioned to us. Forced to abandon those sanguine hopes of acquiring fortunes in the South Sea, there was not a common sailor, who would not rather have ventured starving, than give over the voyage, and yet at this time our necessities were so great, that a rat was fold at seven-pence. But though we were not fortunate enough to reach the golden coasts of Peru, yet our readers will not be displeased to find here, an account of the motives which induced us to undertake this voyage. Some freebooters, who had made fortunes in the South Sea, and had staid long in the Straits of Magellan , on their return, resolved upon a second expedition thither, during the war with Spain-, and with this view, they came to France, where one of them, called Macati, addressed himself to Mr. de Gernes, whom he knew to be a man of enterprise. De Gennes was so well pleased with the proposal, that he repaired to Paris, in order to lay this plan before the ministry, offering to take the conduct of it on himself. These proposals met with all the success he could hope for. The king gave him what ships he pleased, and the novelty of the undertaking induced many of the first quality to become sharers in the adventure, while numbers of young people of the best families entered on board the fleet, both from motives os'curiosity, and with the hopes of acquiring fortunes. We still hope that our little success in this first attempt, owing chiefly to our not being well acquainted with the course of the winds
6 V L A M 1 N G, 1696. in those seas, will not prevent a second trial, in which we may reasonably hope to do better. We left the Strait on the eleventh of April, and, on the 16th, being then near the Tropic, off Cape Trio , we had the moon eclipsed near two hours, at eight o'clock in the evening. The squadron returned to Rochejle, April 21, 1697. ARTICLE XXI. VLAMING, to AUSTRALASIA. This voyage was made in search of a Dutch East-India man, supposed to have been lost somewhere on the coasts of New Holland , in the rout from the Cape to Batavia. This extract we give from the Journal printed at Amsterdam, 170;. It never appeared in English before. 1696. TN the year 1696, three Dutch ships, destined for X this voyage, failed from the Texel. Having dou-i bled the Cape of Good Hope , they found themselves, November 28th, in 38 degrees, 40 minutes, south latitude, longitude 95 degrees, 44 minutes, near to the isle of Saint Paul , to which one may approach in safety, avoiding the west fide, where there is a reef of rocks. They found here a particular species of the fea-lion, eighteen feet long, but neither wood nor water, nor any thing green, excepting some rushes, and, here and there among the rocks, an herb resembling parsley. There were few birds, but excellent fish on the coasts. Next day they got to the island Amsterdam , which lies thirteen leagues from the former to the south, latitude 37 degrees, 48 minutes, longitude 95 degrees, 44 minutes. This island is so covered with bushes, that
to AUSTRALASIA. that it is difficult to force a passage among them. Here 1697s they found neither man nor beast ; only fea-lions and birds. The foil is boggy to the depth of three feet; where the rock begins, which is a fort of pumice-stone, lo that trees cannot take root here. December 25th, they discovered the coast of New Holland , in 31 degrees, 58 minutes south latitude, longitude, 130 degrees, 18 minutes; and, four days after, they had sight of the Isle Rottenefl, (Rats nest), eight minutes further to the north, and 3 degrees, 7 minutes, more easterly. Here they provided themselves with wood, of which they found abundance. January 5th, 1697. Vlaming landed in New Holland, with eighty-eight men well armed. They marched first to the eastward, without finding any thing of consequence, besides a species of large trees, whence distilled a kind of gum, like gum-lack, and plenty of wild parrots. Having gone forward three hours, they Came to a salt-water lake, and by it found the traces of men and children's footsteps, but saw no body. Here they passed the night, and next morning divided themselves into three bodies, in order to examine the country to the south, north, and east. Their researches terminated in finding a few abandoned huts, but no fresh water, and this obliged them to dig pits, where they got some. Returning to the falt-lake, they found it had ebbed a foot, whence they judged that it had a communication with the sea. This they were presently convinced of, by finding a canal, or river to the east, on which they embarked in their boats. Here they found black swans. They catched four, two of which were brought alive to Ba- tavia. Nothing of moment offered to them, though they went along this salt-water river, ten or twelve leagues inland. An exact observation gave them here 31 degrees, 43 minutes, south latitude. A large dry bank stretched along the coast here, half a league from the sea-store. They found also another bank, but rocky, at the height of 30 degrees, 17 minutes, south
8 V L A M I N G, 1697. south latitude. Thirteen minutes further soqth, the variation of the needle was 9 degrees, 21 minutes* north-west. Having passed several little islands, they discovered a high point in 28 degrees, 8 minutes. The barge being sent towards the shore, reported, that though they could not land, by reason of the surf, yet they had seen some savages walking along the shore at a distance. They were of a middle stature, quite black, and entirely naked. Some days after, they landed, and found a piece of inland salt-water with some huts, and the vestiges of mens steps on the sand. At 26 degrees, 16 minntes, south .latitude. They saw two inlets, the most southerly of which was three quarters of a league broad ; and, three days after, they found two rivers, one of which came from the south, and the other from the east, and were very deep. Here the boats penetrated eight leagues and a half into another inlet, which has a communication on the other fide with the sea, to the N. N. W. Next day they found a tin-plate, fastened to a post-with nails, vvi.h an inscription, importing that the ship Concords of Amsterdam, Captain Hartog , had anchored there, Oct. 25, 1616, and had sailed, the 27th, for Bantam. Hartog bay lies in latitude 25 degrees, ,24 minutes, and the variation was here, 8 degrees, 34 minutes, N. W. Nothing remarkable occurs in the remainder of their voyage to the river William, in 21 degrees, 28 minutes. On the 21st of February, they resolved to leave this savage coast, and, in consequence of this determination, they saw Moni island, February 27 th, iri 9 degrees 50 minutes, south latitude, and the ships got safe to Batavia , March x x. According to Vlaming s account, there is not upon earth a more miserable country than New Holland , so that Dampier had reason to say, that the Hottentots were lords in comparison of the inhabitants of this region. And indeed, by all accounts, these savages appear to be funk into the very lowest state of brutality*
9 HISTORY, &c. ]ity, and take no care for their own subsistence than 1696. the beasts of the field, and the fowls of the air. Yet w>J we shall see that they are remarkably robust, healthy, and Warlike, sliowing more bravery than the nations that surround them, though very poorly provided with the means either of defence or offence. ARTICLE XXII. Arrival of some Inhabitants of the Isle Pa ioas at the Philippines. T His curious account is extracted from the Lettres Edificantes et Curieufes , written by the Jesuit missionaries in the Eajl-lndies , which were published by Du Halde, from the letters of Fathers Clain and Go~ lien, tome i. and vi. They ascertain, beyond controversy, the existence of a numerous cluster of islands, lying south-east from the Philippines , and now called the New Philippines, or the Caroline Islands. Had the Abbe Prevojl examined this account, he would not have ventured to assert, that no such lands existed. There are extracts of these letters printed in the Philosophical Transactions. Without regard to the order of time, I propose here to lay before the readers all the accounts we have yet received of this newly-dilcovered Archipelago, from the arrival of some of its inhabitants in the Island Samal during the year we are now upon, down to the year 1731, below which no accounts of these islands have been published, at least that we know of. " The New Philippine Islands are a late discovery, of which we have an account in the Philosophical Transactions, in a letter from a missionary at Manila , who tells us, that being accidentally at the town of Gtiivam, in the Island of Samal , he there found twen- VoL. 111. B ty-nine
JO HISTORY OF 1696.ty.niRe Palaos, or inhabitants of certain new-discovered islands, who were driven thither by the easterly winds, which blew in thole seas from December to May. They had run before the wind for seventy days together, according to their own relation, without being able to make any land till they came in sight of the town of Guivam, an inhabitant of which being on the Ihore, perceived them, and judging, from the make and size of their vessels, they were strangers, and out of their course, took a piece of cloth and made them a signal of entering the road he directed ; to avoid the shoals and banks of land they would otherwise have run upon. These poor people were so frightened at the fight of this stranger, that they began to put to sea again ; yet the wind forced them back a second time towards the shore -, when they came near, the Guivan- nese made the same signal as before; but seeing they would not mind it, but would unavoidably be lost, he threw himself into the sea, and swam to one of the little vessels, on purpose to bring them safe into shore. He was no sooner got to them, but the women, with their children on their backs, and all that were in that vessel, threw themselves overboard, and swam to the other. He seeing himself alone in the vessel, resolved to follow them, and getting aboard the second, showed them how to avoid the shoals, and brought them safe to land ; in the mean time they stood im- moveable, and resigned themselves up entirely to the conduct of this stranger, as so many prisoners. The inhabitants of Guivam running to shore, received them very kindly, and brought them wine and other provisions ; they eat cocoas very freely, which are the fruit of the palm-trees of this country. Their pulp is something like that of chesnuts, only that it is more oily, and it supplies them with a fort of sweet water, very pleasant to drink ; they gave them rice boiled in water, which is used there, and all over Jjia , as bread is in Europe ; they looked on it with surprise, and taking up some grains of it, threw them on the ground,
THE NEW PHILIPPINES. ground, imagining them to be worms •, -upon bring-1696. mg them large roots called Palavan, they ate greedily ot them. In the mean time they brought them two women th# had formerly been driven on shore on the coast of Gitivam , and who understood a little of the language of this'country ; one of the women found a- mong these strangers one of her relations, and, as soon as they knew each other, they fell a-weeping. The inhabitants of Guivam strove with each other who should entertain these strangers at their houses, and furnish them with provisions and cloaths, and other necessaries. Of thirty-sive persons that embarked, there remained but thirty, five dying through want of provisions and other hardships, in so long a voyage ; and, some time after their arrival, another died. They related, that their country consisted of thirty- two islands, which cannot be far distant from the Marians. , as may be judged by the smallness of their vessels, and the form of their fails, which are very like those of the Marianefe. It is likely, that these islands may be in eleven or twelve degrees of north latitude, more southerly than the Marians , and under the same degree of longitude as Guivam ; for, sailing directly from east to west, they came ashore at this town. It is likewise probable, that it was one of these islands that was discovered some years ago at a distance, when a ship belonging to the Philippines leaving the common course, which is from east to west, under the third degree of longitude, and running farther to the southeast, first perceived it. Some called this island Carolina Island from Charles II. of Spain, and others the island of Saint Barnaby, because discovered on that a- postje's day ; and it was again seen, 1695, by another vessel, that a storm had driven out of its course in going from hence to Marians. These strangers added, that, of the thirty-two islands, three of them were uninhabited, unless with wild-fowl, but all the rest were well peopled. Upon asking them the number of inhalants, they pointed to a heap of sand, to show that B 2 their
12 HISTORY OF 1696. their number was very great. The names of these islands Wv/ are Pazs, Lamulututup , Saraon , Taropie , Valayyay , and others. The three islands that have nothing on them but wild-fowl, are Piculet , Hulatan , and Pagian. The most considerable of all these islands is Lamurec, where the king of the country keeps his court, and to him the governours of all the Other istands are subjedst. Among those strangers, there was one of the governours, and his wife, who was the king's daughter; though they went half naked, yet their carriage, and a peculiar air of greatness, sufficiently distinguished them from the rest. The husband had his body painted all over with certain lines, in such a manner, that they formed several figures : The rest of the people were also painted in like manner, more or less. The women and children were not painted at all ; there were nineteen, men and ten women of different ages ; the make and colour of their faces were much like that of the Phi- Itppinese. The men had no other sort of cloaths than a sash wrapped several times round their bodies, and covering their reins and thighs; they wore on their shoulders about an ell and an half of coarse linen cloth, like a cowl, tied before, and hanging loose behind. Both men and women dressed much alike, only that the women had a piece of cloth somewhat longer, that hung from their waist down to their knees. Their language is different from that of the Phiiippinese and Marianese ; their manner of pronouncing comes nearest that of the Arab*, and some who understood the language observed the women, that seemed the most considerable amongst them, had several rings and necklaces of tortoise-shells, called here Carey and o- thers made of a substance much like ambergris, but not transparent. The manner of their living at sea, which was for seventy days together, continually driven by the wind, was thus: They cast out a sort of net made of a great many twigs of trees tied together, with a large mouth for the fish to enter in at, and 1
THE NEW PHILIPPINES. 13 gmd terminating in a point, to prevent their getting *696. put. The fish they took alter this manner was all the nourishment they had, and rain-water saved in cocoa- shells, which is the fruit of the palm-trees, and of the figure and size of a human skull. They have no cows in their islands, and at the sight of them they ran away, as they did likewise at the barking of a dog neither have they cats, stags, horses, nor, in general, any quadruped, nor any fowl, but sca-fowl, excepting hens, which they breed up, but never eat their eggs. Notwithstanding this their want of every thing, they are very cheerful, and contented with their condition. Their songs and dances are exact and regular; when they sing it is all in concert, every one observing the same humour and gestures, which makes it very agreeable. They were surprised at the government, politeness, and manners of the Europeans. They admired not only the solemnities and ceremonies of the church in celebrating the divine service, but also the music, instruments, dan-i ces, and arms of the Spaniards , and gun-powder was what surprised them most. They wondered at the whiteness of the Europeans , in respect of whom they were perfectly tawney, as well as the inhabitants of this country. It did not then appear, that they had any knowledge either of a Deity, or that they worshipped idols. Their life is perfectly savage, minding nothing but eating and drinking, in which they observe no set time or place, when hungry or dry, and when they can find any thing to satisfy nature : Yet they ate but little at a time, and never enough to satisfy for a whole day. They show much respect and deference for their king, and the governours of towns, and obey them very punctually. Their civility and respect consists in taking hold of the hand or foot of the person they would honour, and gently rubbing his face. Amongst their utensils they had some saws, not made of iron, but of a large shell, called here Toulobo , which they rub and whet upon a certain kind of stone. They were
HISTORY OF 1696. were surprised to see the number of carpenters tools W ' J used in building a merchant-ship at Guivam. They have no metals in their country. The father-miffion- ary made each of them a present of a large piece of iron, which they received with as much joy as if it had been so much gold ; and for fear it should be stole from them, they laid it under their heads, when they went to sleep. They have no other arms than lances or darts, made of human bones, very well sharpened, and fixed on. They are naturally very peaceable ; but if any quarrel happens amongst them, it is decided with some fisty-cuffs on the head, which yet very rarely happens; for when they would come to a close sight, they separate them, and they are soon reconciled again. They are not dull and heavy, but, on the contrary, have a great deal of liveliness and courage. They are not so lusty as the inhabitants of the Marians yet they are well-proportioned, and shaped much like those of the Philippines ; Both the men and women let their hair grow long, and hang loose on their shoulders. When they understood that they were to be conducted to the presence of the father-mislion- ary, they painted their bodies all over with a yellow colour, which is looked upon by them as a great ornament. The oldest of these strangers was once before cast on the coast of Caragan. They are very expert at diving, and they said, that in fishing they took two large pearls in their shells, but threw them into the sea again, not knowing their value. The Ne-zv Philippines are eighty- seven in number, and form one of the finest Archipelago's in the east, being inclosed on the north and south between the Line and the T topic of Cancer ; on the east and west between the Marians and Philippines. The natives of the islands never offer any violence to each other: Murder and homicide are unknown to them; and they have a proverb amongst them, viz. That one man never kills another. It is probable, these islands may abound in gold, amber, and drugs, being situat-
THE NEW PHILIPPINES. t§ ed nearly under the same degree of longitude as the 1696. Moluccas , whence we have nutmegs, and other valua- ble spices. Though these people seem barbarous, yet they have amongst them a fort of politeness and regular government -, every island obeys its chief, who is himself subject to the king of the country. This prince holds his court in the island of Falu, called likewise Lamurcc. Though these islands were never heard of in Europe till within these very few years, it is a long time since, from the high mountains of Samal, thick irnoaks were discovered on that coast, which commonly happen in summer, when these islanders set fire to their woods and forests, to clear up the ground : These smoaks the fishermen of Mindanao, and other islands, had also observed when far out at sea. There have been some objections made to this account by some of our writers, who have reported it too succinctly, and thereby embarrassed themselves by confounding their own sense of things with that of their authors. It has, for example, been questioned, whether there be not inconsistencies in these accounts of the Indians ? It is suggested that, as no European ever was in that country, so the belief of such an Archipelago of islands cannot be established on any rational foundation ; and that there is a visible absurdity in the Indians being seventy days in passing from a country, the fmoak of which was seen from the mountains of Mindanao. This humour of reasoning away facts is so strong at present, that, though I have already taken up more room than I intended, yet I cannot forbear adding another relation, with respect to these islands, of a much later date, viz. in the year 1710, because I think it will put this matter out of dispute, and because, hitherto, it has never appeared in our language. " The vessel in which we embarked, in order to " prosecute the discovery of the islands of Palaos , was " called the Holy Trinity , and her crew consisted of " eighty-
i6 HISTORY OF 1696. eighty-six persons : She was commanded by serjeant** " major, Don Francis Padilla , who carried with him u the Reverend Fathers Duberon and Cortil , Jesuits, " accompanied by Brother Stephen Baudin , who were " made choice of to propagate the faith among these " islanders. It was on the fourteenth of Nofember, in the year 1710, that I sailed from the Philippine " islands, in order to find the islands of Palaos , sup- " posing my departure to be from the latitude of 13 " degrees, 9 minutes, and from the longitude of 144. u degrees, 22 minutes, I navigated fifteen days, as 1 " have marked in my chart and, on the thirtieth of " November, we discovered land to the north-east, " 3 degrees towards the north, having observed 4 or ■ " 5 degrees variation th the east in this course, the " land lying from us about three leagues. " We made fail again in order to approach nearer, " when it appeared, that there were two islands, which " Father Duberon thought fit to call the islands of St. " Andrew , because, on the day that we discovered u them,, the church celebrated the feast of that great " apostle. When we were very hear these islands, we ** perceived a boat coming to us, in which were some " of the inhabitants, who cried out, when they were within hearing, Mapia , Mapia , which is as much " as to fay, Good people. A Palaos , who had been " baptized at Manila , and whom we carried with us, " showed himself then, and spoke to them : As soon " as they came on board, they informed us, that these " islands were called Sonforol , and that they were part " of the Archipelago we sought for. They expressed " a great deal of satisfaction and joy at the sight of us, " which they testified by kissing our hands, and em- " bracing us. " These people are extremely well shaped, and of a " very robust constitution; they were naked, except " that about their middle they wore a piece of mat. " Their hair was curled ; they had very little beard, " and, to defend themselves from the rain, they wore " upon
THE NEW PHILIPPINES. 17 '•* upon their shoulders a kind of mantle, made of a 1696. " thick fort of mat, and, on their heads, hats ot the w '"' " fame fort of stuff, round which they stuck bird's " feathers upright. They were extremely surprised " to fee our people smoke tobacco; and, of all things, " seemed most to esteem iron ; and whenever they " saw it, they gazed on it in such a manner as visibly " betrayed how much they coveted it : And in cafe " we did not understand their dumb signs, they made " no difficulty of earnestly and frequently demanding " it. In the afternoon there came off two other boats, " in each of which there were eight men as soon a$ " they came near us, they began to sing, beating time " with their hands upon their thighs,' When they were on board, some of them began to measure the " length of the ship, taking it for granted, that it f ' was made of a single tree, while others counted our " number of men. They brought us some loaves, " some fish, and some herbs. " These islands were all covered with trees to the * c fea-fhore, Their boats appeared to us very neatly " made, in which they made use of smack-sails, ha^ " ving a lee-board on the other side the boat, in order " to preserve it from going over. We desired them to show us which was the course to the largest of " their islands, or Panloque, and they pointed to the " N. N. E. They added, that to the S. S. W. and " to the S. S. E. there lay two other islands, one of " which was called Merieres y and the other Ptulo. " When we were very near the land, I sent my under- " pilot to sound, that I might bring the stops to an " anchor. The shallop being arr.ved within a quarter " of a league of the island, there came oft* three boats " full of people, and some of them going on board " our ihallop, one of the Indians took notice there of " a sabre, which, after he had, for some time, consi- " dered attentively, he jumped into the sea, and took " it with him. My under-pilot reported, at his re- " turn, that there was no fit ground for anchorage, Vot.Iil. C " inasmuch
HISTORY OF 18 1696. 44 inasmuch as there was a great depth of water, and " a rocky bottom all along the shore. I afterwards 44 sent another man on the same errand, who quickly " returned with the same answer. 44 All this time I had made a shift, by keeping un- " der fail, to stem the current, which ran verystrong- " ly to the south-east, but the wind failing in the e- " vening, we began to drive at large ; the Indians " then got into their boats to go astiore. Our mif- 44 sionaries laboured all they could to keep them on ' 44 board, but could not prevail upon them by any " means. They talked with them, however,' some " time, on the first principles of our religion, and " taught them to pronounce plainly the holy " names JeJus and Mary. We asked them several 44 questions as to the bigness of the island, and the < 4 number of its inhabitants. They answered, that 44 the island was about two leagues and a half in cir- 44 cumferencf, and that very probably there might be " eight hundred people, who lived chiefly on cocoa, " fish, and salads. I observed the height of the sun at " noon, and found, that we were in the latitude of 44 five degrees sixteen minutes north, the variation of " the compass at sun-risc being about 5 degrees to the " N. E. . ' ' " The currents carrying us away to the south-east 44 with great violence, we were not able to recover the 44 land till the fourth, about six in the morning. We 44 then found ourselves at the mouth of the channel, 44 betwixt the two islands. I then sent the sir al lop 44 once more to look for an anchorage; it was to no 44 purpose, for, about four in the afternoon, they re- 44 turned-with an account, that the coast was an en- 44 tire rock, and that it was to no purpose to let go an 44 anchor.' On the 5th, about 7 in the morning, the 44 two Fathers came to a resolution of going ashore, 44 and setting up a Cross. Don Padilia, and myself, 44 represented to them the dangers to which they would 44 be exposed, and how much they had to fear from 44 these
THE NEW PHILIPPINES. ^ tliese istanders, with whqse temper we were so little* 1 ^. " acquainted, and how much they might be embar- " raised, in case the currents carried us to such a dis- " taiice as might put it out of our power to fend a " boat to bring them off, or to afford them any allist- " ance. Their Zeal was so warm, that they made iit- " tie account of these difficulties, but persisted firmly " in their resolution, in spite of all we could say. At " last, therefore, leaving Brother Baudin on board the " ship, the'y went into the shallop, taking with them " the quarter-master of the vessel, and the ensign of " the land-forces we had on board: They likewise " carried with them the Palaos I have before mention- " ed, together with his wife and children. " The two missionaries being gone, we kept near " the island all day, by the favour of the wind, not- " withstanding the force of the current; but, towards " the evening, the wind funk, and we were driven " out to sea. We put out lights from the time it was " dark, on the bolt-sprit, and also on the mizen-mast, " that they might see where we were. During the " night, v/e had some gusts of wind from the north- " east, the north-west, the west and south-east, so " that in the morning at break of day, we fonn^l the " largest of the two islands bore from us N. N. W. " distant about 8 leagues. We endeavoured from " that time, to the 9th at noon, to get as near the " land as we could, but without effect ; nay, the cur- " rent drove us still farther and farther, so that 1 found St myself in the latitude of 5 degrees, 28 minutes u north. " We then held a council of war, in order to con- " sider what course we should take. Don Padilla., " the Lay-Jefuit, my sub-pilot, and myself, were of " opinion, that the wisest thing we could do was to " steer for the island of Panloque , the largest of these " isles, and which was distant from that we had quit- " red about fifty leagues. It was about rune o'clock " in the morning of the nth, that we discovered that C 2 island ;
HISTORY OF 1696. tC island j at noon we were in the latitude of 7 degree?, " 14 minutes north, the land being about a league off. " At four in the afternoon came off four boats, which " kept at the distance of about half a cable's length* " and were soon after followed by two other boats ; at " last some of the people jumped over-board into the " sea, and swam on board of us* with intent, asitap- " peared, to steal any thing they could lay their hands " on. One of them laid hold of an iron chain, and ,c pulled at it, in hopes of breaking it; another catch- " ed hold of a hammock that was hung out to dry* " and a third was endeavouring to get in at a port- " hole. Don Padilla , considering the behaviour of " these people, thought proper to put the soldiers un- " der arms, there being at least fourscore men in these " six boats, and at the fame time made a sign to the " islanders to keep at a distance. " Upon this they began to row towards the-shore j- " but at their going off* let fly a shower of arrows, " four of which fell on board our ship. Don Padilla " then thought fit to order a general discharge of our " fire arms; upon which the Indians jumped over- " board, leaving their vessels, and fminiming towards " the shore at a prodigious race ; but when they found " that we gave over firing, they returned to their " boats, reimbarked, and made for the land as fast. " as they were able. These Indians were all of them " naked, and some had painted their bodies of differ- u ent colours. Their skin is generally of an olive-co- " lour; but some were darker skinned than others; " they had nothing with them that we saw, but a few " cocoas. On the 12th we had little or no wind, so " that it was as much as we could do to continue in " our station, which we did all that day without ap- " proaching near the land. About four in the after- " noon there came off two boats, who made signs, " and spoke to us but, as we had no interpreter, " we were not able to learn what they said. About " nine at night, the wind blew south-south-east, and " the
21 ±HE N£W PHILIPPINES. " the currents setting strongly to the north, carried 1696. " us away at a great rate. I then thought the most " prudent thing I could do was to fail between two of " these islands, the channel being very open and fair, " and about a league over. On the 13th, being to " the west of these two islands, we held a council, in " order to consider what measures we were to take, " and it was very soon resolved to bear away for Son- " surol , in order to learn some news of our miffiona- " ties, and of our. shallop. On the 18th, I found " myself abreast of that island. We lay there the " whole day without so much as seeing a boat, though " we were within canon-shot of the soore. Wecoast- " ed round the west side of the island till the 20th, " when a high gust of wind from the south-east drove " us out to sea. " On the 21 st we again drew near the coast, and by " two in the afternoon were within three quarters of " a league of the lhore, without perceiving any boat. " In the evening we were driven to sea again by an " east-north-east wind, upon which we held another " council, in which, after mature deliberation on the " circumstances we were in, without a shallop, in " some want of water, without knowing where to get " any, it was resolved to return to Manila , which we, " did with some difficulty, being forced to make the " tour of Mindanao , carrying nothing back but the " melancholy news of the loss of the two worthy fa- " thers we carried out." It appears clearly from this relation, that it was penned by the captain of the vessel, though he has noc thought sit to inform us of his name. Better evidence than this of there being such an Archipelago cannot be desired, though at the fame time it must be confessed, that this account gives us a very different notion of those people from that suggested by the former narratives. In 1711 another attempt was made of this kind, which ended as unluckily, some of the Jesuits intended for the mission dying at sea, and others perishing
22 HISTORY OF 1696. riffling in these islands, as very probably those did that are mentioned in the foregoing voyages. It has been generally believed, that these islands of Palaos are near the Philippines, and the same with those which were discovered by a Spanijh captain in the year 1686, and who, in honour of Charles II. of Spain, called them the Caroline IJlands ; but I think these lay more to the south. On the 19th, and on the 21st of June, 1720, there arrived in the island of Guam, the largest of the Archipelago, called the Marian IJlands, two boats full of Indians, who said they embarked from an island called SaresslGp, in order to go to another at a small distance from it, called Uly, and were driven thither by a storm. A vessel was fitted out to carry them home, and from the accounts given by those who were on board that vessel, it very clearly appeared, that the last-named island was one of those called the Caroline IJlands, lying in th,e latitude of 6 degrees north. It is said, that these islands belong to a large Archipelago divided, like the Maldives, into five provinces, and inhabited by various nations of very different colours; Some negroes, supposed to be of the same race with the inhabitants of New Guinea, others tawny, like the Indians in the Philippines, and a third sort perfectly white, supposed to be the descendents of certain Spaniards, who, in the year 1566, were set on shore by their commanders for mutiny, in a voyage from New Spain to the Philippines. While these people were on fit ore at Guam, they saw some silver-plate, and, after considering it attentively, declared that they had a great deal of that metal in their islands, which gave occasion for the fitting out some ships from Guam, for the discovery of those islan ds,- in the year 1722 ; but what the fate of that expedition was, is not come to our knowledge. It is certain, that a very great discovery might be made on this side, because, from what is already known, it is very clear, that there is a continued chain of islands in the longitude of about 160 degrees from the Line, or rather fro fit
2Z THE NEW PHILIPPINES, from the Continent of New Guinea , which lies in the i6t)6. latitude of 8 degrees south to the islands, that make a part of the Archipelago of Japan , in the latitude of 32 degrees north, and as it is certain, that the inhabitants of the last-mentioned Archipelago acknowledge they received great quantities of silver from an island which lies to the east of them, it is not at all improbable, that many rich metals might be found in some of the many islands which form the chain before mentioned. ARTICLE XXIV. ANTONY CANTO VA to the Caroline Islands. We give this extract from the letters of the missionaries before mentioned. Vide Voyages aux Terr. sluftr. vol. ii. 469. Nor do we think it ever appeared in Englijh before now, though it contains a great many interesting particulars, relating to the religion, genius, and customs of these islanders. HEN the Spaniards first took possession of the \Y Ladrone Islands, they soon learned, that there lay, to the sooth of these, a great many others, to which they gave the name of the Caroline Islands *. Hence, they considered the island of Guam, (the biggest of the Ladrones ) only as a port that might facilitate their conquest of the great number of islands * It is doubtful that this discovery is so ancient. Clain says, with more probability, that they were first seen by Spanish navigators in the year 1686, and that they were called the Carolines, in the year 1696, from Charles II. at that time King of Spain. Was the discovery as old, as is here said, thev may have got their names from Carles, son of Philip II, But this is far from being probable. they I
24 ANTONY CANTOVA, to 1696. they judged lay towards the south, and the gove" nours of Guam made several attempts from time to time for this end, but to little or rio purpose. On the 19th day of June 1721, a bark was perceived at sea, much like to those of the Ladrom Islands , but more lofty, so that the centinel took her for an European frigate. She landed at T'arasofo, a desert coast of the ilk uuam, towards the east. There were on board 24 persons, eleven men, seven women, and six children. Some of these came ashore, and began to icr cocoa-nuts, though with all the appearances of terrour. A native of Guam, fishing hard by, perceived them, and immediately informed Fathet Muscati. Immediately this Jesuit, accompanied by the chief of the next village, and some others, went in canoes to the relief of these poor islanders, who knew nothing either of the country or people among whom they were. The chief of the village having a sword, fright- ned them almost to death, and the women sent forth lamentable cries, imagining they were directly to be massacred, nor could all the Spaniard's signs of friendship encourage them. At last one of them, who seemed to have more courage than the rest, spoke a few words to his countrymen, and then leaping ashore, went up to Muscati , and presented him with some pieces of the shells called Carret , and some yellow paste, with which they adorn their bodies. The father accepted his little present, and embraced him. This. dissipated their terrour, and they aU came ashore with confidence, where they were plentifully supplied with food, and had every assistance, to restore their strength, after the fatigues they had undergone. That they might appear decently, the missionary caused give, them cloaths, and lodged them in the village of Ina~ karam, till they got the govcrnour's answer, to whom they sent notice of the Indians arrival. Their bark is of a singular construction. The fail is made of Palmetto leaves, nicely joined together. The head and stern are of the fame figure, terminating like
the CAROLINE ISLANDS. 25 like a dolphin's tail. Within board are four little 1696. chambers for goods and passengers. One at the head, another at the stern, and two others by the mast, but these project beyond the gunnels on each side, forming a kind of wings. These cabins are covered with Palmetto leaves, to keep off the fun and rain. Besides these, the hold is divided by partitions fitted to hold necessaries. The most surprising thing of all is, that there are no nails used in the whole construction, nor any pin, but the planks are so neatly joined by a kind of strong thread, that no water can enter. Two days after this event, another strange bark, but resembling the Marian prows, landed at the west point of Guam. Aboard her were only four men, a woman, and one child. They were conducted to U- tamag , the residence of the governour Luis Sanches , where they were presented to the others, to fee if they were of the same nation. They proved to be so, and testified their mutual joy, by repeated embraces. We learned afterwards that these two barks were part of fix that had sailed from the Isle Faroilcp to go to that os Ulee-, but that, during the passage, they had been dispersed by a strong wind at west, and having been driven about twenty days at the mercy of the waves, and suffered dreadfully from hunger and thirst, besides the efforts they were obliged to make to resist the violence of the currents, they at last were driven on the isle of Guam. 1 hey were indeed in a very weak state, and had their hands sadly blistered with rowing. One of their stoutest men did not long survive these fatigues, and was baptized when at the point of death. Their cloathing consists of a certain stuff, which they wrap round the reins, and bring through betwixt their legs. Their chiefs had a kind of mantle, open at the sides, which hung from their shoulders down to the knee. Beside the cloth round the reins, their women had a fort of petticoat descending from the waste to the middle of the leg. Their nobles have their bodies painted, and their ears pierced, to which Vol. 111 . D they
-6 ANTONY CANTOVA, to 1696. they h^ng aromatic flowers, grains of cocoa, and bits; of glass, when they can get them. These Indians are tall and well made, most - had crisped hair, thick noses, large piercing eyes, and thick beards. Their complexions are not alike, which makes us think that they are a mixed race of Spaniards and Indians *. It is not easy to say, whence this diversity of colour proceeds. I shall, in the sequel, hazard some conjectures on this intricate subject. On the 28th of June, the governour caused transport these islanders to Agadna , the capital of the Marian islands, where he lived. As they were still very weak, our apothecary applied himself, with great care, to restore their health. We next thought of instructing them in our religion, but this was like to prove a difficult task, their tongue being utterly unknown to us, nor had we any interpreter. However, byinde- fatigable application, I at last got enough of their language to enable me to express in it some short prayers, and the principal doctrines of our belief. These I made them get by heart, and repeat often, in the hearing of their countrymen. On the 29th I baptized one of their children, who appeared to be dying. .But he recovered, and I am now happy to see him learn our religion and manners with the greatest facility. I also baptized four other children, whom their parents agree to leave here, when they go back to their native country. They also show a define of becoming Chris- * This conjecture cannot possibly be true. We have seen that in the islands of the great South Sea, the Indians are found to be of three different colours, even in those that lie near to each o* ther. However strange this phoenomenon may appear, it is certainly most true. Cantova indeed mentions 29 Spaniards that were abandoned in one of the islands of the South Sea, during the year 1566, and, if his opinion be just, tlietr posterity must have gone over all these islands, in a century and an half. This is by no means probable. Had it been so, they would certainly have left some vestiges of the Spanish tongue also, among these Indians, but this does not appear to be the cafe, as the language of the islanders has no similitude to any European dialect. tians
the CAROLINE ISLANDS. 27 tians themselves, but as they are to return immediate-ify^* ly, and have no missionaries with them, it was appre- *"' w bended they would quickly forsake their new religion. They had now staid four months in Guam , during which time they had gathered, with the utmost avidity, all the old nails, hatchets, and other instruments that fell in their way, this metal appearing to them the most valuable acquisition they could make. The strong desire they had to see their families again, and carry home their treasure, made them solicit leave to depart, with the utmost anxiety. The governour, willing to indulge them, thought of letting them go home, in some way that should keep up our intercourse with them, and retaining some of their principal people as hostages. He allowed me to go with them, in order to inspect their country and manners, but my superiours would not allow me to be absent. Our Indians continuing to ask leave to go, saying, that, without this permiffion, life would be intolerable to them, the governour continued to amuse them with fair words, till he should get things in readiness to fend, and examine their islands. 1 made use of this time, and the little knowledge I had gained of their language to inform myself, as far as I could, of their islands, their religion, their customs and government. Though I dare not assert with certainty the true situation of all these islands, since I have it only from the reports of the natives, yet I flatter myself, that the precautions I took will prevent any material errour. I talked often on this subject to those of them that seemed to have most experience; and, as they use a compass that has 12 points of the winds marked upon it, I informed myself what course they used to steer, in going from one island to another, and what time Was spent in the passage. I also had regard to the structure of their barks, which are larger than those of the Marian Islands. After carefully weighing all I have learned on this subject, I suppose I am not far D 2 from
28 ANTONY CANTOVA, to 1696. from truth in laying down these islands between the W " J sixth and eleventh degree of north latitude, and about 30 degrees longitude east of Cape Spirito Sanclo, in the isle or Samal. The islands composing this Archipelago, are divided into five provinces, each having a particular dialect, which resembles ihe Arabic *, as far as I could judge from their pronunciation. The first province to the east, is called Cittac , and its principal island, which is much larger than Guam , goes by the name of Torres , or Hogoleu. Its inhabitants are partly negroes, partly mulattoes and whites. The king's name is Tahulucapis , who has under his sceptre a great many other islands of different sizes, but all very populous, distant from each other, 8, 15, and 30 leagues. Those stretching from north to west are Et al, Ruao , Pis , Lamoil, Falalu , Ulalu , Maguir , Ulou, Pullep, Lesguischel, Temetem , Schough. Those lying from N. W. to S. E. are called Cuop, Capeugreug , Foup , Peule , Pat , besides a great many lesser ones. The second province begins 4 degrees, 30 minutes east of Guam, betwixt the 8th and 9th parallel. It comprehends 26 isles of small size, fourteen of which are inhabited ; Ulee, Lamurrec , Faroilep, and others which are marked in our chart. The pilot Rodriguez being shipwrecked on the shoal called St. Rose, in the year 1696, first discovered Faroilep , with the two neighbouring islands, and he judged it to lie about forty-five leagues from Guam. This province is divided into two districts. That oiUlee, whose Lord is called Gofalu, and that of Lamurhei, governed by Ma- tujfon. The islanders we have now with us, are of this province. The third province begins at 2 degrees west from Guam. Its largest island is called Feis, about six # We must have good proofs to support the conjecture of this language being derived from the Arabic, which appears very improbable, when we revolve the great distance of situation, and the small foundation there is for believing that any Arabian ever was in those seas. leagues
29 the CAROLINE ISLANDS. leagues in circuit, very fertile, and well peopled. Its 1696. chief's name is Meirang. The province is made up of W ' J a heap of islands, occupying a space 25 leagues long, and 15 broad. Captain Bernard d'Eguy first discovered them in the year 1712. Ealalep is one of these, and is 5 leagues round. The chief resides in Mogmog, in palling which the barks lower their fails, as a mark of respect. The Isle Zaraol belongs to this province, though lying 15 leagues off. They comprehend under the general name of Lumuhuutu all the islands lying to the east, and under that of Egog all those situated towards the west. The inhabitants live on cocoa-nuts, fish, which they have in abundance, and roots of the same species with those in the Marian slands. The fourth province lies 30 leagues further west. Tap is the name of the principal island, forty leagues round, very fertile, and extremely populous. Besides the roots common to all the rest, they have here the potato, which they call Gametes , and were originally brought from the Philippines, as one of these Indians, called Caial, told me. He said that his father, called Ceor, one of the principal men on the island, three of his brothers, and himself, were thrown by a storm on one of the Philippine Islands, called Bisaias , where one of our missionaries took care of them, and gave them clo.aths and iron, which they esteem above all things in this world ; that, at their return, they brought back to their country the feeds of different plants ; and, a- mongst others, the potato, which multiplied so fast, that they were soon able to supply the other islands. These people compose a paste of a yellow colour and aromatic smell, with which they anoint their bodies on festival-days, and this, in their idea, is a mark of magnificence. I have, however, some doubts of the truth of what this man also told me, viz. That there were mines of silver in his island, but that they got little of it, for want of iron tools to work them ; but that they sometimes found lumps of virgin-silver, which they
3 a ANTONY CA NT OVA, to I 1696. they brought to a round figure, and so made a present 01 them to their Lord, named 'Teguir, who, he said, had some of these pieces big enough to serve for stools to sit on. Six or eight leagues from this island, are three small ones, forming a triangle, whose names are Negolti , Laddo , and Petangaras. The fifth province, lying 45 leagues from Yap, is composed of a great number of islands, called by the Indians Panlieu , and commonly Palaos , but they named only seven of the largest, lying N. and S. viz. Pelilieu , Coaengal , Tagalaten , Cogeal, Yalap, (where the chief resides,) Mogulibec , and Neigarrol. These islands are populous, but their inhabitants are savage and inhuman, The men and women go stark-naked, and eat human flesh. The Carolines look upon these people with horrour, as the common enemies of mankind. This account 1 have reason to believe true, as it corresponds with the relation of Father Bernard Meffia. Twenty.five leagues S. W. of these last, are the two islands, called by us St. Andreiv, and by the natives Sonrol and Cadocopuei , in y degrees north latitude. It was in Sonrol that the Fathers Duberon and Gortil staid, in the year 1710, together with 14 other persons, one of whom was the Indian Moac , who served them as interpreter, with his wife and two children. Notwithstanding all our endeavours, we have never been able to hear of them since, nor could our Indians tell me the least thing about them. The people of Ulee , when I mentioned the name of Moac , shewed a strong desire to learn his fate, saying, that for some years he had disappeared, and that having sought him in vain a- mong the islands, they no longer doubted that he had perilhed at lea. They added, that to the east of all these islands, lay a great number of others, particularly one of great extent, called Falupet, whose inhabitants adore a large, voracious fish, called the Yiburon .- (This is, perhaps, the shark). These people are black, of savage manners. This was all they could tell me of them, as what they
the CAROLINE ISLANDS. zr they learned concerning these islanders, was only by 1696. the accident of some of them being driven on their w '" l coasts. The Palaos , who came among us, have little or no idea of religion, and practise no sort of devotion. On asking who made heaven and earth, they said they could not tell. They have some nction of good and bad spirits, but they give to these spirits bodily organs, allowing them two or three wives each. The most ancient of these spirits (according to them) are Sabau- csur , and his wife Halmelul. These had a son, called Eliuiep, that is, the Great Spirits and a daughter Li- gibuud. EliulepmzxxxeA Leleufhieul, who was born in the Isle of Ulee. She died in the vigour of life, and her foul flew up to Heaven. Eliuiep had by her asm, called Lugueiling , that is, the Middle of Heaven. This person they adore as the heir apparent of Heaven. However, his father dissatisfied at having only one son, adopted a young man of great accomplishments, born in Lamurrec , whose name was Reschahuileng. They add, that this man, weary of staying here below, mounted up to Heaven, that he might enjoy the fame pleasure there as his father did ; that his mother, now a very old woman, still lives at Lamurrec , and that her son descends to the middle region of the air, to communicate to his mother several heavenly mysteries. By these fables, the natives of Lamurrec get themselves highly respected by the other islanders. Ligobuud , Aster of Eliuiep , finding herself with child in the trfiddie region, came down to earth, where she was delivered of three children. On her arrival, the ground was dry and barren, but by her potent command, she covered it with verdure, and enriched it with trees, fruits, and flowers, and peopled it with men. During this first age death was unknown, but mankind ceased to live the last day of the decline of the moon, but awaked to life as from a pleasant sleep, as soon as it began to appear again on the horizon, but an evil spirit, called Erigircgers, envying their happiness,
zr ANTONY CANTOVA, to 1696. ness, contrived to make them die, so as not to recover W ' J life again. For this reason, they call him Elus Mela- hut , Evil Spirit, and the others Elus Melafirs , Good Spirits. They name also another evil spirit, whom they call Morogrog, who being thrust down from Heaven for his bad actions, first brought down fire with him to earth, something like what the poets tell of Vulcan and Prometheus. This Lugueiling , son of Elieu- lep, had two wives, the one a celestial being, who bore him two sons, Carrer , and Melilian , the other terrestrial, born at Falalu in the province ol Huogcleu, by whom he had Oulefat. This last, being told that his father was a celestial spirit, became impatient to see him, and for this purpose endeavoured to fly up to Heaven, but soon fell down to the ground again, like another Icarus. His bad success did not discourage him. He kindled a large fire, and by the help of the smoke, he at last got to heaven to his father. There is, in the lfle Falalu , a little fresh water lake, where the gods are said to bathe themselves, and for this reason the natives never approach this sacred place. They believe the sun, moon, and stars endued with reason, and that they are inhabited by numerous celestial nations. Such are the general principles of their theology, to which, however, they do not seem great bigots, for, with all these objects of veneration, they have neither sacrifice, temple, idol, or any other ex- teriour worship. They throw the bodies of the dead into the sea, as far from shore as they can, and leave them a prey to the fish. But the bodies of those of distinguished rank are buried with much pomp. The moment the sick man expires, they paint all his body yellow, and his friends and relations assemble to deplore their common loss. At first nothing but groans and cries are heard, which gradually subside into a melancholy silence. This is again interrupted by a female voice, which, with many tears, enumerates all the good qualities of the defunct, his descent, his beauty, his agility
the CAROLINE ISLANDS. 33 lity in dancing, his address in sidling, and in short, 1696. every thing that can do honour to his memory. Those of the audience, who are most affected by this funeral oration, cut off the hair of the head and beard, and throw it on the dead body. During this whole day, they eat nothing, but the night following they take care to make amends for this fast. Sometimes they inclose the body in a small stone edifice erected within their houses, and sometimes bury them at a distance, surrounding the grave with a stone-wall. They also leave some viands near the tomb, in the belief that the foul of the deceased feeds upon them. They believe an after-state of rewards and punishments, and that the fouls of such as go to heaven, return to earth the fourth day, and are among their relations, though invisible; and they have priests and priestesses, who pretend to hold communication with those spirits, and declare whether they are destined to happiness or misery. They adore the happy spirits, calling them Tahutup^ ox patrons, and every family has its Tabutup or protector, to whom they address their vows. If they are sick, on a journey, hilling, or cultivating the ground, they always invoke their Tahu~ tup , and offer him presents, which are hung up in the houses of their Tamoles, as thanksgivings, or in hopes of obtaining their desires. The inhabitants of the Isle Tap , are more brutish. These adore a crocodile, and have among them enchanters, who keep up a correspondence with evil spirits, and by their assistance, bring diseases, and even death, to those they hate *. When going a-fishing, they carry no provisions to * This is not the only instance of the absurd credulity, and low superstition that predominates in the Lettres Edificantes . Many of these missionaries fill their accounts with such idle tales, as disgust every reader of judgement and true taste. Such are their miracles, their legends, &c. many of which equct the Legcnda A urea Sanctorum. Vol. III. E sea* E
j 4 ANTONY CANTOVA, to 1696. sea ; but, before they set out, the Tamoles convene iri w " ; a certain house, and generally in the month of February, and judge of the success of the fishing from a heap of knots made upon the leaves of the palm-tree, and if these are found in equal numbers, they think the season will be prosperous, and that the contrary will happen, if the numbers prove unequal. A plurality of wives is not only permitted, but e- ven looked upon as a mark of honour. The Tamole , or chief of Huogok, has nine wives. Though adultery is reckoned a great crime, yet it is commonly forgot, if a handsome present is made to the injured husband,- The man is permitted to put away his wife, if she violates his bed, and the woman may leave her husband, if he no longer pleases her; and in such cases, they have laws regulating the distribution of the dowery. When a man dies without children, thewidow marries the brother of the defunct, as the ancient Jews did. With all their ignorance, we find among these people a certain police, which demonstrates that they are of a better disposition, and endued with more sagacity than many Indians in this part of the world, who have little human, besides their figure. The authority remains in several noble families, the eldest of which are called Tamoles , And besides these, there is, in every province a head Tamole , to Wiom all the others are subordinate, These let their beards grow to a great length, speak little, but always with authority, and affect a grave and imposing deportment. When a Ta- Mv/e gives audience, he is seated on a high table, and his subjects bow to the ground before him. They begin at a good distance to put themselves into a stooping posture, and advance towards him in this manner, with every mark of reverence. When they are got near him, they fit down on the ground, and receive his orders with the most profound submission, which they look on as oracles, and he ver violate. When they have a favour to demand, they kiss his hands and feet. Though the houses in general are only low huts, covered
the CAROLINE ISLANDS. 35 covered with palm leaves, yet those of the Taywies are 1696. built of wood, and adorned with paintings after their w '"' manner. Criminals are neither punished by imprisonment or death, but they content themselves with banishing them to another island. In every village there are two houses set apart for the instruction of youth ; one for the boys, and another for the girls. But the education of the former is terminated in teaching them a few loose principles of astronomy, for their use in navigation. The master has a kind of sphere, en which the principal stars are marked, and he shows his disciples the rhombs of wind they ought to observe indifferent courses. The chief occupation of the men consists in fishing, building boats, and cultivating the earth. The business of the women is dressing, the victuals, aiding their husbands in sowing the ground, and making stuffs of the wild plane, and of another tree they call Balibago. Having no iron, they use stone hatchets in cutting down wood. If they happen to bring to their islands any pieces of old iron, these are immediately given to the 'Tamoles, who order them to be made into utensils, as well as they can, which they hire out to their subjects at a stated price, and this constitutes a large branch of their revenue. These people bathe themselves at morn, mid-day, and evening. They go to bed, and rife with the fun. When the Tamole goes to steep, the young folks, assembled round his house, endeavour to divert him with their music, singing certain pieces of poetry, till he bids them cease. They now and then assemble by moon light near the Tatnole 's house, and sing and dance to the sound of their own voices, for they have no musical instrument. The beauty of their dances consists in an exact uniformity of motion. The men are placed opposite to the women, and move their heads, arms, and legs, in exact cadence. On these occasions they are dressed in all their finery. On their heads they have crowns of feathers, aromatic flowers hang- E 2 in?
Z6 ANTONY CANTOVA, to 1696. ing from their nostrils, and palm-leaves from theU' ears. Their arms, hands, and feet, are also ornamented. The dance of the women is of another kind, more suited to their sex. They fit down, and looking towards each other other, they begin a doleful and pathetic air, which they accompany with corresponding movements of the head and arms. Hence it is called in their language, Ganger Ifaifil , or the women's ditty. When the dance is ended, the Tamole , if he be of a liberal disposition, holds up a piece of cloth, to be catched by the most nimble of the company. ' Besides the dance they have other games, in which they give proofs of their vigour and address, darting the javelin, throwing stones, and catching balls in the air, and these games are solemnized at particular seasons of the year. They are particularly fond of whale- iishing, and their method of killing them was thus described to me by an inhabitant of Ulec. There are ten or twelve of these islands lying so as nearly to form a circle, within which the lea is smooth. When a whale enters the gulf, the islanders, in their boats, immediately form a chain to seaward, and advancing by degrees, they frighten the animal, and drive him forward, till he sixes himself on some shoal. Then they throw themselves into the water, and attack him with lances, while the rest fasten him with ropes to the shore. Thus they kill and drag him to land, and the whole is concluded with a feast. The quarrels of private people are generally terminated by presents, but differences betwixt the villages commonly produce a war, in which their weapons are stones and lances, headed with filli-bones. Their combats are just so many duels, every man attacking the adversary immediately opposed to him. Their battles generally are fought in some open plain, and their little armies are" drawn up in three ranks, the first being composed of the young men, the second of those of the largest stature, and the third of the old men. The first rank engages man to man, with stones and
the CAROLINE ISLANDS. 37 -and lances, and whenever a combatant is disabled, his 1696. place is filled from the second rank, and that void is Ws 4 again supplied from the third. The victorious army shout for joy, and insult the vanquished. ; Among the different tribes of our islanders, those of Ulee appeared to me more civilized than the rest. Their air and manner was more engaging, and though more gay than the others, they had more good fense. They also showed more compassion and natural sensibility to the distresses of others, which leads me to think that they would prove more ready to receive instruction than their countrymen. Their general food consists of fish and roots. They have also birds and fowls, but no four-footed animals, nor have they rice, wheat, barley, or maize. They have numbers of trees, of which they make their boats. They have in these islands many Mestizos, and Ne^ groes who serve them as domestics. Probably these Negroes come to them from Nezb-Guinea, with which they may have a communication by the south. 1 ho' I have before mentioned the whites among them, and my conjecture as to their origin, yet I shall here relate a fact mentioned by Father Collin, in his History of the Philippines , cap. 20. Martin Lopez , pilot of a ship going from Mexico to the Philippines , conspired with 28 more, to put the rest of the crew ashore on some desert island, and go a pirating on the coasts of China. Their plot being discovered, they were themselves put ashore on an island lying east of the . Marians t or La- drones. It is probable that this was one of the Caroline Islands, and that these Spaniards mixing with the women of the country, produced that race of Mestizos we now find in all these islands *. * We have already observed that the cause here assigned is by no means equal to the effect, whites being also found in the islands that lie about mid-way between the Ladrones and the coast of Mexico, at a vast distance from the Carolina. Memo-
38 ANTONY CA'NTOVA, to Memorial by Fernando Vaides Famon, Governour of the Philippine Islands. This Memorial we here give in Englijh from the French of the Collector of the Voyages aux Terres AEflra- les , vol. ii. p. 489, as it contains the last accounts we have yet seen of these distant regions, and therefore should not have been omitted by the late Editor of Harris's voyages. J 73 r -fT^HE Fathers Cantova and Waher left Guam the ad X day of February, 1731, and sailed for the new discovered islands. The second of March they arrived safely at one of the Carolines , and spent there three months in the exercise of their mission. Finding themselves here in want of every thing, Walter embarked, in order to return to the Marians , and furnish himself with necessaries for the Father Cantova , whom he left in the island, with fourteen inhabitants of the Marians. Contrary winds obliging him to land in the Philippine Isles, he was forced to wait a whole year, in expectation of the ship which goes once in two years to the Marian islands. Thus he did not embark again till November 12, 1732, and after a navigation of three months and an half, had the misfortune to be shipwrecked, just as he got to his intended port. The missionaries, not discouraged, immediately caused fit out another vessel, at a great ex- pence, onboard of which Walter embarked, May 31, 1733, attended by forty-four persons. Having failed nine days, they at last got near these isles, and firing some guns, as a signal, no boat appeared, which made them suspect that the barbarians had killed Cantova. They then entered a fort of bay formed by two islands, one of which is Falalep , and coming within pistol-shot of the shore, they could discern that the house was burnt down to the ground, and the cross fixed on the shore was demolished. At last four boats came towards the
THE C A R O LI RE 1 S L A N D S. Zs the ship, bringing cocoa-nuts, and these people, be- 1731. ing alked what was become ai Cantova , answered with an air of embarrassments that he and his companions were gone to the great island Tap^ but the terrour that was painted in their faces, and the absolute refusal they gave to our proposition of coming on board, though we endeavoured to allure them with bilcuit and tobacco, left us no room to doubt, that Cantova and his people had perished by the hands of these barbarians. At last we catched one of the savages, and brought him on board, while the others, jumping into the sea, with great cries, got away by swimming. Next morning we sailed for Tap , but not knowing what course to steer, we spent three days in vain, searching for it. Meanwhile we questioned the Indian we had taken, and assuring him we would do him no harm, if he told the truth, he at last gave us the following account. Father Cantova had gone to the Isle Mogmog to baptize an Indian, accompanied by his interpreter and two soldiers, leaving the others in Falalep to guard their house. Fie had scarce landed, when the natives got together in great numbers, armed with lances, and surrounded the missionary with loud cries. Fie asked them gently why they would murder one who had never done them any injury. Eut they replied, that, as he came to change their ancient customs and institutions, they would have nothing to do with his religion, and with these words they run him through at once with three lances, stripped his body, and wrapping it in a mat, buried it in a little hovel, which method of interment they bestow only on their chiefs. They also massacred his three attendants, and putting their bodies into a boat, let it drive to sea. They next came in their boats to Falalep , where the others had been left. The soldiers, feeing them advance to-, wards the house, fired on them from four small field- pieces they had planted before their gate. This discharge did r"t intimidate these barbarians, though it killed
HISTORY OF 4 ° 1696. four men, but they continued to advance, and though the soldiers made a gallant defence, yet were they at last oppressed with numbers, and all massacred. Their bodies were buried by the sea-shore. There perissed on this occasion with Cantova , eight Spaniards, four Indians from the Philippines , and a slave, only one young man escaping, on whom one of their chiefs took pity, and saved his life, by adopting him as his son. The barbarians pillaged the house, and, after dividing the plunder, set fire to it. ARTICLE XXV. Manners and Customs of the Inhabitants of the Marian, or Ladrone Islands. E here present the reader with a very curious ex- W tract from Father Gobien' s History of the Ladrone , or Marian Islands. His work was printed at Paris, 1700, in izmo, and contains, for the most part, uninteresting accounts of the endeavours of the missionaries to plant the Catholic faith in these islands, some details relating to the Spaniards residing there, besides many relations of miracles said to be performed by the priests among these Indians, which, being now treated in Europe with the contempt those pious frauds merit, are quite unnecessary in a work destined only to convey useful instructions, and not to perpetuate fabulous legends. As Gobien' s work is very little known, arid rare-to be met with, it has escaped all our other collectors of voyages to this part of the globe, and this account, from an eye witness, of what he relates, appears in Englisli for the first time, " The Marian or Ladrone Islands have Jafan to the north, and New Guinea to the south. They are situated at the extremity of the Pacific Octan, betwixt the
the LADRONE ISLANDS. 41 the Line, and the Tropic of Cancer, near four hun-1696. tired leagues from the Philippines. The distance from Guam, or Guaham, the most southerly of these Hies, to Vrack, the most northerly, is about 150 leagues. Though situated within the Torrid Zone, yet the sky here is always serene, the air pure and healthy, and the heat is never excessive. The trees covering tire mountains are always green, and the valleys everywhere intersected by crystal str.eams, render those islands a perfect paradise *. Before the Spaniards discovered these islands, the natives lived in the most perfect freedom and independence, subjected to no laws, but every man lived as it best pleased himself. Separated from every other nation by immense tracts of ocean, and confined to their 'own limits, they concluded that no other lands existed, and looked upon themselves as the only inhabitants on this globe. As they retained no traditionary accounts of their own origin, they followed the method of several Ancient nations, and asserted that the authour of their race was formed of a piece of the rock of Puna, a small island, lying west of Guam , and therefore looked upon tins rock with a sacred dread, as the birth-place of the human race. Many things, looked upon by us as absolutely necessary to our existence, were utterly unknown to these Indians. They had no animals of any fortj and would not have had even the least idea of them, had it not been for the birds, of which they had but one species, somewhat like the turtle-dove, which they never killed for eating, but only tamed them, and taught them to speak. They were very much astonished on seeing a horse, which a Epanijh captain left among them, in the 1673. They were never tired viewing and ad mi,- ring him, and the force, beauty, and spirit of this extraordinary animal, brought them from all the differ- * See the account of the Island Tiniau, in Mr. /Infon's voyage- Vol. III. F enj-
42 H ISTORY O F 1696. ent islands to fee him. They could not understand V " v ' j how he could eat and digest iron, for they thought that the metal of the bit was his food. His long tail was the subject of universal admiration, and in order to obtain some hairs from it, which they highly valued, they caressed him, made him presents of cocoa- nuts, to gain his friendship, and prevail on him to suffer them to pull out some hairs, without kicking them, which sometimes happened. The Uritaos (so are their young men called, who keep mistresses, without engaging in the marriage-tie) made use of those hairs to adorn the hollow sticks they c^rry, instead of the pieces of bark they commonly wove round them, and accounted these their greatest ornament. What is most surprising in their history, and must appear quite incredible, is, that sire, an element of such universal use, was utterly unknown to them, till Magellan , provoked by their repeated thefts, burned one of their villages *. When they sow their wooden houses blazing, they first thought the fire a beast which fed upon the wood, and some of them, who came too. near, being burnt, the rest stood afar off, lest they should be devoured, or poisoned, by the violent breathings of this terrible animal. We neither know when, or from whence these islands were first peopled. Japan lying within six or seven days fail, has induced some to believe that the Marian islands were thence peopled. To support this opinion, they observe that the nobles here are haughty and proud, like the Japanese. But this conjecture has but little in it, and it would seem much more probable, that they came from the Philippine Islands, as their colour, language, and manners, much resemble those of the Tagaies , who inhabited the Philippines at the arrival of the Spaniards , and they are certainly the sorest evidences of the original of nations. It is there- * The original accounts of Magellan's discovery do not mention that fire was unknown to these islanders. fore
the LADRONE ISLANDS. 43 fore probable that these people are the descendents of 1696- some Tagales , who, at some uncertain period, were v ' rW driven on these isles. Be this as it may, the Ladrcnes are very populous. Guam , though only 40 leagues in circuit, contains 30,000 inhabitants, Saypan nearly as many, and the o- rliers in proportion to their size. They are all full of villages, both on the mountains and the plains, and some of these are composed of 100, and 150 houses. The natives are olive-coloured, but not of so deep a dye as those of the Philippines. Their stature is advantageous, and their limbs well-proportioned. Though their food consists entirely of filh, fruits, and roots* yet they are so fat that, to strangers, they appear swelled, but this does not render them less nimble and active. They often live to an hundred years and more* yet retain the health and vigour of men of fifty. Many are the concurrent causes of this longevity. Habituated from their early infancy to the changes of the atmosphere, their nourisiiment is quite simple and u- niform, nor do they know any of those despicable arts used by us to quicken a depraved appetite, and incite them to overload their stomachs. Their exercises, though regular, are always moderate, in silking, cultivating the ground, and caring for their cocoa-trees. Above all, their easy and careless manner of life, exempt from cares and solicitude for the future, leaves their minds and bodies in full vigour, even to the extreme of old age. Diseases are rarely known among them, but if they are attacked by sickness, they generally deliver themselves from it, by the use of a few simples, The men go stark-naked, but the women are covered. They are not ill-looked, and take great care of their beauty, though their ideas on this subject: are very different from ours. They love black teeth, and white hair. Hence one of their principal occupations is to keep their teeth black, by the help of certain herbs, and to whiten their hair, sprinkling on F 2 " it
N 44 16y6. VJ^y-s"A HISTORY OF it a water prepared for this purpose. The women leave their hair very long, but the men generally shave it dose, except a single lock on the crown of the head, after the manner of the Japanese. Their language resembles much that of th e Eagales in the Philippine Islands. It is agreeable to the ear* with a soft and easy pronunciation. One of its chief graces consists in the facility of transposing words* and even all the syllables of one word, and thus furnishing a variety of double-meanings, which these people are greatly pleased with. Though plunged in the deepest ignorance* and destitute of every thing valued by the rest of mankind, no nation ever showed more presumption, or a more overweening conceit of themselves, looking on their own nation as the only sensible, polistied, and wise, in the world, and beholding every other people with the greatest contempt. Though they are ignorant of the arts and sciences, yet, like every other nation, they have their fables, which serve them for history, and some poems, which they greatly admire. A poet is, with them, a character of the first eminence, and greatly respected *. We have a specimen of their mannef of speaking and reasoning in the following harangue* which our historian puts into the mouth of one of their chiefs, who attempted to persuade his countrymen to shake off the Spanijh yoke, in the year 1670. . " These Europeans (fays this Indian) would have " done better, had they continued quiet at home. We " had no need of their assistance to live happily. Con- " tent with what our islands afford, we wanted nor * We need scarce observe to the learned reader, that m this they relemble the ancient Jeias, Creaks , and Arabs, among whom a poet was greatly revered, his name honoured, and his works transmitted with the utmost regard to posterity. The cause of this was the fame in these different nations, poets being generally their oracles in theology, history, physic, and legislation; and this, added to the charms of song, procured them high honours a"iong their countrymen. " wislied
the LADR 0 NE ISLANDS. 45 *' wished for any thing more ■, and the knowledge they 1696. " have brought us, serves only to inflame our appe- '" w " rites, and increase the number of our wants. They " find sank with us for going naked. Had a contra- " ry fashion been necessary, nature would not have o- " mitted it. Why load ourselves with cloths, things in themselves quite superfluous, and impede the free " action of our limbs, under the pretext of modest co- " vering ? They call us Unlettered and Barbarous. " But are we to take this on their assertion ? Do not " we daily fee, that, under the specious pretence of " instruction, they corrupt our manners, abolish our " ancient simplicity, and deprive us of liberty, the " first blessing in this world ! They try to persuade us, " that they come to make us happy and, alas! there " are among us many foolish enough to believe them. " But how can we fall into this errour, when we re- " fiect, that it is only since the arrival of these stran- " gers, that we are afflicted with a variety of diseases, " formerly unknown, and that our quiet and repose are " gone ! In short they seem to have arrived here, on- " ly to afflict and torment us. Their priests murder our children with their poisoned water, and our sick " with their oils, while their attendants massacre our " people with impunity, by the superiority of their " destructive weapons. Before their coming we knew " nothing of those infect-tribes that now cruelly disturb " us. We had neither rats, flies, mice, or mofqui- " tos, which seem sent into the world, to be the ** scourge of mankind. Such are the goodly presents " they brought us in their large canoe-s. Till now, " when did we hear of rheums, fluxes, and fevers ? u Some flight ailments we had, but they were easily " removed, while they have brought numberless ma- " ladies to infect our people, which all their boasted " science is utterly unable to cure. And is this the " price at which we purchase iron, and a thousand o- " ther trifles, the value of which is only imaginary ? * These Christians upbraid us with our poverty. ' ' ' 2 What
4 6 HISTORY OF 2696. " What then do they seek among us, and what can v ' v ' w " incite them to make such long and hazardous voya- " ges to get at pur islands ? Believe me, they would " not come so far, if they had no need of us. To " what purpose serve the doctrines they profess to " teach us? To bring us under subjection to their " laws, td oblige us to adopt their customs, and thus " to deprive us of that liberty our ancestors transmit- " ted to their descendents: In one word, to make us " unhappy during our whole lives, in expectation of " a chimerical felicity, which is to take place when " we no longer exist. They call our history a heap of " fables; But have we not the fame right to call il theirs a collection of absurdities ? Their whole art " lies in taking advantage of our candour and litnpli- " city, and thus they abuse our goodn-atute, and ren- " der us miserable. We are blind and ignorant, fay " they; and true it is, we. have been blind in not " sooner discovering their pernicious designs, and hin- dering their establishment amongst us. But let us " yet apply the remedy before it be too late. They " are but a handful of men, whom we can easily ma- " ster. Though we have none of their destructive " weapons, yet we can overpower them by numbers,, " and, by one blow, regain our liberty, and deliver " ourselves from the insults of those intruders." There are three orders of men among this people, the nobility, the middle, and lower class. Those of the first order are haughty to a degree beyond belief, and hold the others in a state of the lowest subjection. If a nobleman was to fully his name by a marriage with one of the lower class, their custom was, before the introduction of Christianity, for his whole family to assemble, and walh away this infamy in the blood of the offender. Hence they avoid, with the greatest care, the approach of any of the lower orders, and never go near their houses. If a Chamouris , or noble, wants any thing from a peasSnt, he stands at a distance, and a Iks it, and the house of a noble would be
the LADRONE ISLANDS. 47 be thought polluted, if a peasant ate or drank in it. 1 £96. The lands are hereditary in the families of the nobles. ^ Their children do not succeed to them, but the brothers or nephews of the defunct, who assume the name of the family. How strange soever this custom appears to us, it is so well established in these isles, that no dispute is ever occasioned by it. The principal nobility inhabit Agadna , capital of Guam , induced by the goodness of the waters, and advantages of its situation. The principal nobility preside in their assemblies, and, though greatly listened to, yet the people follow their opinions no further than they judge it expedient, being no way tied down by any established laws, though they follow several received customs pretty generally. Though, in general, they are barbarous enough in their manners, yet the nobles observe some forms of civility. Thus, on meeting one another, they fay, Ati arinmo, that is, Pertrsit me to kiss your feet. When a noble passes by their house, they ask him to eat, and present him with the herb which they chew continually. One great mark of civility with them, is to draw their hand lightly over the stomach of their supe- riour, and nothing is held more rude than to spit before him. Their delicacy on this head is extreme. They spit very seldom, and with great precautions; never of a morning, nor near to another man's house. Fishing is their ordinary occupation from their youth, and they swim surprisingly well. Their boats are very neatly made, and go with prodigious swiftness. They caulk them with a fort of lime, mixed with the oil of the cocoa-nut, and a species of bitumen found in the island of Guam. Their houses are agreeable and commodious, being built of cocoa-trees, and another, peculiar to those isles called Maria. Each house consists of four rooms, divided by mats of palm-tree leaves. In the first room they sleep, they eat in the second, the third serves
48 HISTORY OF 1696. serves to hold their provisions, and the fourth to work W ' N ' in. No people live in a more absolute state of independence. Every one is idle judge of his own actions, whenever reason begins to dawn. Even children pay no regard to their parents, unless they happen to stand in need of their assistance. Every man avenges the injury done himself. If a general quarrel happens, they go to war on the stightest occasion, and lay down their arms as easily as they assumed them. In the beginning of an attack they fend forth loud Ihouts, rather to animate themselves than to terrify the enemy, being naturally of a cowardly disposition. They march like an irregular croud, having neither general, disci* pline, nor order. As they never carry any provisions to the field, they often pass two or three days fasting, occupied in observing their enemy's motions, and endeavouring to draw him into an ambuscade, in which piece of cunning no people excel them : In short, they seem to go to war with this sole view, never coming to action, if they can passibly avoid it, or if they do, it is only to escape the reproach of returning home without doing any thing at all *. Being of a timid dilposition, two or three men falling, decides the fortune of the day, the rest dispersing in a moment, with the greatest marks of fear. Presently the vanquished send embassadours to the con- . querours, with presents and submissions, which are received by these people, naturally vain, with all those marks of contempt a low mind stiows on seeing his e- nemy at his feet. They compose satirical poems, which they recite at their public feasts, and continue to show every token of contempt and insult. The catalogue of their offensive and defensive wea- * This method of making war corresponds exactly with that of the savages of America and other barbarous nations in all ages, as we learn from Herodote, Homer, and other ancient writers,- compared with the Journals of modern travellers. pons
the LADRONE ISLANDS. 49 pons is very short. They have neither bows, arrows, 1696. or swords, but their sole means of offence are stones w '" l and lances. These last are headed with human bones, to which they give a very sharp point, and the natural poison of this weapon is so violent, that- if the smallest bit of it remains in the wound, death, attended with violent convulsions, tremours, and excruciating pain, infallibly ensues, nor has all their art yet discovered any remedy against this fatal poison *. They throw stones with so much force from their stings, that they are often found sticking fast in the trunks of trees. They have no armour Of any sort, but trust entirely to their agility in avoiding the blows levelled at them. No nation excells them in dissimulation, and by this the Spaniards were often outwitted at first, and the missionaries began to extol the frankness and candour of their behaviour, till they became better acquainted with them, when they found all this to be only hypocrisy, and that they could not be too much on their guard with this perfidious nation. (We may venture to observe here, that this part of their character is common to most uncivilized nations, and is often the effect of the imprudence of the conduct of the Europeans towards them. They generally begin by caressing the savages, and as soon as they find themselves in a condition not to fear their resentment, they maltreat them frequently without reason. We Should, probably, succeed much better, if we observed the rules of probity more ourselves, in our transactions with the Indians.) Revenge is their predominant passion, and the facility and steadiness with which they di-guise their sentiments, almost exceeds belief. They never return a * We.leave to physicians, first, the truth or falsity of the fact r here asserted by the missionary. Secondly, the means of accounting for this extraordinary effect, supposing the fact ascertained. Vol. III. G harsli
HISTORY Of 5 o 1696. harsh word, or change a feature of their countenance WvJ on receiving the grossest injury. All lies hid in their breasts, and, with the quickest sensibility of the wrong, they appear quite easy and composed. This specious appearance they will observe for years inviolated, but when the favourable moment comes, they make themselves ample amends for this constraint, by the blackest acts of treason and revenge against their unsuspecting foe. As they never constrain themselves on any occasion, except the one above-mentioned, their inconstancy and fickleness of mind appears every moment. This moment they wish for the thing with the greatest ardour, which in five minutes after, they are quite indifferent about. This disposition makes it very difficult for the Spaniards to deal with them. They are fond of pleasure and merriment, and being of a jocose disposition, they are always rallying each other, and diverting themselves. Their sobriety is rather the daughter of necessity than temperance. But they meet often together, to regale on fish', fruit, and a certain liquor, made of rice and grated cocoas, and then exercise themselves in dancing, running, leaping, and wrestling. They recite the heroic deeds of their ancestors, and repeat the works of their poets, which are full of fable and extravagance. The women have also their festivals, to which they come dressed with shells, grains of jet, and bits of tortoise-shells, which hang over their foreheads, mixed with flowers. They also wear girdles of little shells,, curiously interwoven, which they esteem as highly as we do pearls and diamonds. To these girdles they generally hang small cocoas, very neatly wrought. Their robes on these occasions are woven of certain roots, but so very unshapely, that they have as grotesque ail appearance, as if each woman was inclosed in a cage. When they are met, ten or twelve of them form a circle, standing upright without motion. In this posture they begin to sing the verses of their best poets, with a justness of voice, harmony, and cadence, that would please
the LADRONE ISLANDS. 51 •please even in Europe. To mark the cadences more 1696. perfectly, they use little shells, instead of our casta- nets. Their song is accompanied with such lively and just action, that there is no hearing them without being charmed with -their melody. Though the men are allowed as many wives as they please, yet they generally content themselves with one. Here the women enjoy that pre-eminence which the men claim every-where else. The wife is absolute mistress of every thing in the house, nor can the husband dispose of the smallest thing without her permission; and if he proves ungovernable, ill humoured, or irregular in his conduct, the wife corrects, or even leaves him altogether, for here marriages last no longer, than the parties think proper. But from whatever quarter the first overture for a separation comes, the wife retains all her moveables, her children go along with her, and consider the next husband she takes as ■their father. Thus it happens, that often a father of a family finds himself in a moment deprived of wife and children, by the caprice of a foolisti woman. This is not all. Though a man finds his wife unfaithful to him, he may indeed kill her gallant, but he is not permitted to maltreat his wife, and all his resource is to leave her, and take another. But if the husband is guilty of infidelity, the woman can punish him as she pleases. For this purpose she assembles all the women of the village, who repair to the place, armed with lances, and .wearing their husband's caps on their -heads. Thus accoutred, they march stretght towards ■the house of the delinquent, and begin by tearing up the plants, destroying his grain, and ruining every thing without doors. They next attack the house, and if the husband has not already fied, they quickly force him to abandon his dwelling. At other times, the wife complains to her friends, and tells them she can no longer live with her husband. Her relations are glad to have an opportunity of enriching themselves, by plundering the husband,; for they immedi- G 2 ^ ately
HISTORY OF 52 1696. ately pillage his house, and carry off every thing, and the poor man thinks himself well off, if they do not puli down his house into the bargain. The absolute sovereignty enjoyed by the women, hurts the peace of families, and deters the young men from marriage, who generally keep concubines, whom they buy from their parents for pieces of iron, and tortoise-shell. These concubines are in a manner common to all the youth, and often prove the cause of great disorders. These islanders abhor murder, and, (if we may credit Gobien,) they are never guilty of theft. Thus (fays he) the name of Ladrones was very improperly given to these islanders by their first discoverers, their honesty being such, that they never lock up their houses, nor do they ever find their goods taken away. But we may venture to fay, from the concurrent testimony of all navigators, that however honest they may be towards each other, their behaviour has justly got them the name of Ladrones from strangers. However they have sometimes showed great humanity towards other nations, as in the case of the ship Conception, wrecked on one of these islands, whole crew was treated by the Indians with every circumstance of pity and relief. Before they saw vessels from different parts of Europe, they believed themselves the only nation in the world. They are now convinced of their mistake in this particular, but as they are naturally vain, they have adopted a system that flatters their prevailing passion extremely. They assert that the first man was formed in Guam, and being transported to Funa, was there changed into a rock, out of which were produced the present inhabitants of the globe. That some of these being sent to people Spain, Holland , and other countries, soon forgot their maternal language and customs; and hence (say they) we find, that those who come to us from these regions cannot understand us, but speak a barbarous jargon like idiots. However ignorant they are, they do not believe the world to be eternal, but have a number of fables concerning
the LADRONE ISLANDS. 53 cerning the beginning of things, recorded by their 1696. poets, and these verses are fung in the festivals. Be- W ' J fore their intercourse with the Christians, they had no notion of a Deity, or any religious worsliip, nor had they any temple, priest, or form of worsliip. But they put great trust in their Macanas , or soothsayers, who pretended to invocate the Anitis , or fouls of their ancestors, whose skulls they preserved, and by their help, pretended to foretell events to come, to command the seasons, to restore the sick to health, and procure success in their sisliings and agriculture. With all this, they pay very little attention to these skulls, but allow them to lie carelessly about the house, locked up in wicker-baskets, which they never open, unless some fool comes to consult them. When a sick person comes to be near his end, they place one of these baskets near his head, to receive his foul, and they beseech the spirit to accept of this basket as his constant habitation, or at least to lodge in it, when he returns to visit them. This, however, evinces their belief of the immortality of the foul, as well as another they have, of carrying about the embalmed corpse of their parents, to the house of all his relations, that the spirit may chuse among them a habitation for itself. 1 hey have also some irregular notions of a hell and a heaven. They call the former Zarraraguan , or the house of Cayfi, that is, the Devil, who keeps a vast furnace constantly red hot,.in which he incloses departed spirits. Their paradise is a region under the earth filled with delicious cocoa-trees, iugar-canes, and other fruits. But it is not their good or bad actions which conduct them to either of these places. Virtue and vice are here entirely out of the question. All depends on the cause of their death. If any one dies a natural death, he goes streight to paradise, where he enjoys every kind of happiness. But those who fall in battle, or are murdered, are immediately shut up, and tormented in hell. And hence their strong aversion to war and bloodshed. They believe that ghosts often ' appear
HISTORY OF 54 - 1696. appear on earth, and maltreat the living. Hence they often complain of being beat and injured by them. Then they have recourse to their ariitis, not to ask favours, but only to prevail on them not to torment them, or fend them bad dreams, in which they have an implicit faith and confidence. There is no nation more naturally eloquent, or more animated in their air and gestures. Nothing can be imagined more melancholy than their funerals. They shed torrents of tears. Their cries would move the most obdurate heart, and they fast and weep continually till they are quite exhausted, as this often contir- nues for many days together, in proportion to their affection for the deceased person. They erect mounds of earth on the tombs, where they sometimes eat, and crown them with flowers, branches of palm, shells, and every precious thing they have. Mothers who have lost their children, carefully preserve a lock of their hair, and wear a cord round their neck, to which they add one k. ot every day. If a noble or his wife die, then their grief transports them to an excess of fury. They root up their trees, they burn their houses, they destroy their boats, and tear the fails to pieces, which they hang up before his gate. If the defunct was remarkable for his skill in arms, or in fishing, they ornament his tomb with oars and lances, and sometimes they interweave branches of trees a- mong the lances. While they are thus employed, some of the company pour forth lamentations in the most feeling expressions. One begins , My life is now of no avail, Bitterness and misery are my portion. My sun is set for ever, my moon is darkened, And the star that guided me has disappeared. Another answers, Alas ! I have lost my all. No more shall I behold What made the joy of my heart. 1 wander in thick darkness, and am plunged Into the bitter ocean of tears. . How
the LADRONE ISLAND'S.- 55 How is the valour of our warriors departed ! i6 9 6 - How is the glory of our nation become dim ! What will become of us, a miserable race ! Such are their complaints, which are often continued day and night for a long while, in proportion to the love and esteem they had for the deceased. NOTE of the Longitude and Latitude of these Islands. Magellan , who first discovered these islands, called them Lcirones. Miguel Lopez de Legastpe, in his course from Mexico to the Philippines , first took possession of them for the crown of Spain , anno 1563, and called them De las Velas , from the nnmber of barks he saw under fail hereabouts. They were afterwards called Marians , in honour of Mary-Anne of Austria , consort to Philip IV. They consist of fourteen islands, lying nearly in a line from south to north, in the direction of the 161 meridian, a proof that they are the summits of a large chain of mountains under water. The widest canal lies betwixt Saypan and Annataian. Nine of the fourteen to the north of this canal, are distinguished by the general name of Gani. They are also called de los Volcanes , on account of three flaming mountains, two in the isle of Pagan, and a third in Ajstonson. The whole fourteen lie between the 13th and 21st degree of north latitude. Here follows an account of the size of the several islands, with the dimensions of each, and their latitude. Guam ,
56 BE AUCHESNE-GOUIN, 1699 . Guam, or St. John , Zarpane, or Ksts, - Agniguan, Pinian, or Buena Vista, Saypan, or St. Joseph, Anatayan, or St. Joachim, - Sarigan, or St. Charles, Guguari, or St, Philip, Alamagan, or Conception , Pagon, or St. Ignatius, Agrigan, or St. Xavier, - Ajsonson, or Assumption, Maug, Punas, St. Lawrence, 1 These, are three rocks, \ Urack, or Vrack , a desert isle. Circuit. Car. Leagues. Deg. Min. 40 lZ 25 *5 H 0 3 14 4 3 1 5 -4 50 25 15 20 10 17 20 4 J 7 35 3 45 6 18 10 14 19 5° 16 19 4 6 20 15 3 20 35 4 20 55 4 4 4 4 4 4 4* 4 44 4 4 4 44 44 4 4* t 4 4 4 4* 44 4 44* 4 44 4 444* 44 44 44 ARTICLE XXVI. BEAUCHESNE-GOUIN, to MAGELLANIC A. 1696. This is an extract from the journal of the Sieur de Vil- lefort, Ensign on board the Pbilippeaux. It was found in the library of the celebrated geographer William de L'ifle, and was, by his brother, given to the Editor of the Voyages aux Per res Aujlrales, who inserted it in his work, and from hence we have translated it into English. We arc told by the former editor, that the original journal contains very minute accounts of the winds, anchorings, depths, currents, and positions of the coasts, but rarely marks the latitudes, and never the longitudes, nor the variations of the needle. My
to MAGELLANICA. 5? M Y first destination was to serve as Garde Marin x fy 9 - in the squadron commanded by Mr. de Gennes-, but some accidents removed me to the post of Ensign in Mr. Beaucbesne 1 s vessel, who commanded four ships destined for the Straits of Magellan. We failed from th e. Pertuis d'ddntioch^ December 17, 1698. The 9th of June in the year following, thinking we were in Port Desire , we found we had overlhot it, and therefore we came to an anchor in Spiring's bay. At this time we law none of our squadron, except the Mau- repas , Captain Terville. I accompanied Mr. de Beaucbesne when he went to examine the country. We got upon the sandy hills, and found a place where the Indians had been dressing shell-fish. Half a league further,' we saw a hollow, and three little ponds in it. We advanced 3 leagues further into the country, which appeared quite destitute of wood and water, except in one place. We found the dung of horses, oxen, and sheep, but saw no large animal but an eagle. We also saw footsteps which appeared as newly made, across some large plains, where the ground was stony, and not easy to walk over. Further on, we met with birds of several kinds, and killed a sea-lion, larger and heavier than a horse. He yielded a great quantity of oil. and had in his stomach some stones as big as one's fist, and yet they were begun to be digested. We also killed of thele animals, which were no larger than iheep. At the bottom of the bay, towards the south, there is a good haven. Two leagues within land here, we found some wood which had been burned, and some lakes of water, which were fait, though at this distance trom the sea. June 13th, we walked 8 or 9 leagues to the northward, over hills and plains, covered with snow, without finding either wood or water, but we saw four ostriches, and as many deer. We wanted to find out Port Desire , but being very much fatigued, we gave over seeking it, though we indeed it lay not far V-OL.Iil. H ' from
5 S BEAUCHESNE-GOUIN, 1699. from us. We were obliged to quench our thirst by swallowing snow, and sucking pieces of ice. After pasting a very bad night round a fire made of thorns, we returned to the Lip. The other party, marching south, found fresn water and wood, 3 or 4 leagues from the Bay. We got under fail, and, on the 24th, doubled Cape Virgin , and, the following days, we saw the fires of the savages, on both fides the Strait of Magellan. .After touching at Port Boucault, and the iste of Pew- gains, we came to an anchor in Port Famine, July 3d, in 25 fathoms water. Though it was now the middle of winter, yet the cold was not extreme, the trees were green, and their branches full of parrots. As we had seen, the three preceding days, great smokes made by the savages on the Terra del Fuego , Beaucbej'ne ' sent the shallop thither, well manned and armed. On our making signals of friendship, t-hey permitted us to approach without difficulty. We found about 40 men and women, of whom we brought on board three, and these we had well warmed, for they appeared stiff j with cold *. As they live entirely on raw flesh, sea- 1 lions, and shell-fish, they could not eat our food, e- 4 specially the bread. The next day I carried them back. j During our passage across the Strait, which is here ] five leagues wide, one of my crew fell overboard, and j was drowned. On this accident the savages began to i howl and cry, nor did they cease yelling, till they were s set ashore. I passed the night by a large fire, keeping j a good watch, as 1 distrusted the savages, three of ; whom went also on board of Mr. TervilV s ship, . ; August 16, we anchored in Port Francois, to the , south of the Isie Savcures , in 20 fathoms water. Here- 'j a bouts are several little isles, where there is good fhel- i ter against all winds, and where ships may even ca- 'j 1 \ * This does not correspond with the accounts of other navi- i gators, who represent the Patagonians as-remarkahly hardy, and , going as mod naked in the coldeit weather. jj reen.
to MAGELLANIC A. 59 teen. Beyond Cape Forward , we found a good haven, 169ft- and a fair river. The beautiful muscle-lhells are found a league beyond Cape Holland. While we lay in Port Gallant , a strong N. W. wind made the ship drive. We got out another anchor, but to no purpose, and, what was worst, the cables plaited together, so that we were obliged to cut them both, and lose our two anchors. We anchored in Elizabeth hay the 25th, and, the day after in a river, east of the Strait St. Jerome. Near the east point of Elizabeth bay , there is a shoal, with 2 fathoms and an half water, covered with green herbs, but there is a fife passage between it and the land, and though the current is strong, yet the anchorage is good and safe. Here the savages used to call to us, and came aboard in our boats, men and women, where we presented them with knives, and other trifles. Opposite to Elizabeth bay , there lies an island, 7 or 8 leagues round, and behind it, in the Ferra del Fuego , a good haven, which Mr. Beauchesne called the Nativity ox the Virgin. On the other side of the island there is a large hollow, forming a very good port. We called this, Baye Dauphine. Another haven, on the west o.f the island, was called Port Phelippeayx, and the isle itself, the island de Louis le Grand. Our captain took possession of it in the king's name, caused sing Fe Deum , and set up an inscription in Latin , importing, that this island was taken possession of by him for the crown of France , September 17, 1699. In the middle o i Bay Dauphine lies a shoal, easily discovered by the sea-weeds that cover it. The passage on both fides is quite safe. The 21 st we anchored at the mouth of the river Gallant , near the Strait of St. Jerome , where I was witness to a singular accident. A female savage, standing in the water mending her canoe, was suddenly taken with the pains of child-birth, st he crouched down, and, without making a wry face, was presently delivered of her burden in o*ur presence. The foetus appeared to be about 3 months old, and most proba- PI 2 * bly
6s BE AUCHESNE-G 0 U 1 N, 1699. bly was dead; for, after extracting it with her hands, she looked at it a moment, and then throwing it into the water, returned to her work with the greatest tranquillity. We called this Majsaere River , because here our freebooters killed some savages, who had massacred their companions in the woods. This stream is large and broad, and flows from between high mountains far back in the country. Its banks are flat, and extend themselves into wide'plains. The greatest disadvantage here is a bar of sand, lying across the mouth of the river. The 26th we were anchored in 24 fathoms water, at a place we called More-au pain near Cape de Galte. The savages continued to visit us, because we always gave them some trifles. Ten leagues beyond Cape de Gattc , we found a small haven, fit to contain two or three ships. We called this Port Fran pis. I do not think that any ship before ours had ever anchored upon this coast, beyond Cape de Gatte. The marks to find the port, in coming from the cast, are four rocks, like sugar-loaves, in a line, upon a high hill to the west of the porti Coming from the west, it is known by a pretty large island to the east of the port, which lies hearer to the Terra del Fuego than to the other side. The month of October proved very rainy, which appeared more extraordinary, as hitherto we had seen nothing in this country but hail and snow. Our meat became now corrupted, but the flower and the brandy continued good, and' we had fresh bread everyday, which greatly relieved our crews, though some of them were attacked by the scurvy. We had got within fight of the South-Sea, but were forced back by contrary winds to Port Pheiippcawx. We began now to deliberate, whether we should turn round Cape Horn , or persist in making the passage by 'the Strait. This last opinion prevailed ; but, after trying again, we were driven back, and obliged to come to an anchor, on the 4th of December, opposite to Cape de Catte, in the
to MAGELLANICA. 61 Terra del Fuego, at a place we called Port Vanolles. 1699. Here the savages came to us in their canoes, and we found a muscle, that weighed, with its shell, 29 ounces, besides a variety of other si sit, being the first we had seen in the Strait, and on that account very welcome to us. December 20th, we resolved to leave this passage altogether, and go by that of Le Maire. The wind forced us to Port Famine , and then to Majfacre River, from thence to Port Va,nolles, where we found anchoring, and fish in abundance. At last we had the satisfaction to double Cape Pillar , and, on the morning of the 21st, we saw the Four Evangelists, being very happy to find we had, at last, got into the South Sea. Here we found a thick fog, and a strong wind at north, accompanied with a thick fog, which dispersing towards evening, we saw the extremity of the Terra del Fuego, at 12 leagues N. E. of us, where it forms the entry into the Straits from the South Sea. This mouth lies in 53 degrees, and the one into the North Sea, in 52 degrees, 30 minutes. Coming from the north, it is best to keep near the Terra del Fuego, because the contrary current takes a rapid course along the continent. Those who come from the South Sea have generally the wind fair for them. In this course, keep pretty near the Terra del Fuego, quite to Cape de Gatte, and bring the land aboard on the continent side, for fear of being bewildered in the labyrinth of islands, which form the Terra del Fuego, The best season for passing, is from December to February. The most violent flaws of wind are generally felt from Cape Forward, to Cape St. Francis. The tides are most sensibly felt on the one side from Cape Virgin to the isle of Penguins, and on the other, from Port Gallant, to Cape de Gatte. Throughout the whole Strait, from sea to sea, the flood sets to the west, and the ebb to the east. The wooded lands appear on the continent from Elizabeth Island, till within 15 leagues of Cape Viclory , and on the opposite coast, from Sebastian's Strait, to
6 z BEAUCflESNE-GOUIN, *700. Cape Pillar. The two sides of this famous Strait are inhabited by two nations, which are generally at war with each other. One of these, occupying the country from the North Sea, up to St. Sebastian's, is called Laguedicbe, and the other tribe, (which is also the most numerous) called Haveguediche, inhabits from the canal of St. Jerome , to Cape de Catte. They seldom go so far as to the entry into the South Sea. Their language is not difficult, but they speak much in the throat *. On the 4th of February, 1700, we had sight of the island Soccorro , which was the rendezvous appointed for our consort, now separated from us. This isle lies 4 or § leagues from the continent, and is near a"s many in length. The coast is safe, the lands flat, or making gentle risings, with much wood upon them. Our boat brought us from shore some wild peas, which we found to be very good. Not meetsog our consort here, we failed for Baldivi/z, and there found her. But we were greatly surprised, when they told us, that having come to an anchor within the forts, some of their officers went to wait on the governour, who told them he would come on board the ship next day. But while they were busy preparing for his reception, all of a sudden, the four forts began to cannonade the French vessel. They had nothing for it bpt to cut their cables as fast as possible, and, leaving two anchors behind them, got out to sea. In doing this, they were obliged to pass under the sorts, who fired above 500 shot at them, By which they suffered much in their rigging, had some men killed, and their captaso wounded. * The Patagonians who inhabit the south store, (says Acofia , Jib. iii. c. 13.) are little and mischievous. Those on the north are Jarge-bodied, and w arlike. Some of them were brought into Spain. N. B. This is the only account of Patagonians having been e- ver brought to Enrcpe, and we even doubt the fact, for reasons to be assigned in the course of this work. We
to MAGELLANICA, We were in great want of refreshments at this time, and if we could not have them by fair means, we were determined to take them by force, in spite of our orders not to commit hostilities, or to return by the Eajl- lndies , but to come back by the Straits of Magellan. But we were delivered out of this dilemma by the inhabitants of Arica, who furnished us with provisions, and these we obtained chiefly by means of some French we found settled there. We found one of our countrymen in a little village, opposite to the isle of Guam , who helped greatly to dissipate the fears of the people on the coast, who were alarmed at seeing our two stups. The Indians of this island, make use of boats of a very ' singular construction, called by them Balzas. They are formed of two pipes of leather, ten feet long each, made of the skin of the sea-lion, with their ends turned up. They carry these to the shore, folded up, and before they put them into the water, they fill them with wind, by means of a small gut fixed to the end of the pipe. Then tying the two large pipes together, they fix other steins across them, well fastened, and these serve them for putting the goods and passengers upon *. After 3 or 4 months stay on the coast of Chili and Peru, we set sail for the Gallapagos Islands, lying under the Line, and so called from the multitude of lea and land-tortoises found there. There are about 22 of these islands. We got to them on the 7th of June, and immediately the ship's provisions were locked up, and the crew were served with tortoises and fish, which were in plenty. But we found neither fresh water nor trees, excepting a few mangroves, near the shore. The soil of these islands (if we may call it so, for there is little but a calcined rock) is divided by precipices, * There is another larger kind of balza , or raft, made of wood, used on the coasts of Peru. This curious machine is ac- curatly described by Ulloa, vol. ii. p. 189. EngUJh edit. to •which we refer the reader, as the book is in every body's hands. ' and 6Z I7OO. OynJ
6 4 • BEAUCHESNE-GOUIN, i7°°.and has the appearance of black metal turned upside down, by subterranean fires. It trembles all round, when one walks upon it. Our shallop found a pretty harbour, lying on the west of the island, shut in by a small island. We saw here the wreck of a ship, and this made us conjecture it to be Tobaco Island, where the Englijh freebooters used to come and careen their ships some years ago. Health IJland , (IJle de SanteJ lies 20 leagues from the former. We anchored here the 10th, and found it quite dry and barren, with only a few green trees near the shore. Here are no sea-to-rtoises, but many land ones. About a league from the bay to the N. W. I found a small spring of fresh water, which disappeared at the distance of 40 paces from the source. Here we diverted ourselves killing pigeons, which are so numerous and tame, that we knocked them down with cudgels. We next visited the Island Mafiarin , in 1 degree, 12 minutes latitude, south, but found it no better than the rest. Near it we saw some large whales, which surprised us greatly, no body expecting to find any so near the Line. July yth, we set sail, in order to return to Europe. The currents carried us so far to seaward, that we did not see sand for eight days, after our reckonings, told us that we were near it.* Our water began to fail, and the crew was sertfed very sparingly. But we contrived a method to make it last longer, and that was, by placing a barrel always on deck, and allowing every man to drink when he would, but with a small cup. This, we found to be the best method of husbanding, our store. At last, with much difficulty, we got water on the coasts of Peru, whence the currents had driven us near goo leagues. The Spanijh governours, also, showed themselves very unwilling to assist us, alledging the orders of the viceroy, and sometimes even threatning hostilities. We understood this language perfectly well, and a few presents obviated all difficulties. However, the governours were very glad,-when
to MAGELLANIC A. 6Z they saw us depart for the Strait of Magellan, though 1696. the inhabitants regretted it m.uch, as we traded daily V " Y ' J with them, by which both we and they were great gainers, come of them were indeed imprisoned by the government, but this did not frighten the others front coming to us. Our design (as I have laid) was to return by the Strait of Magellan ; but having taken on observation, January loth, 17.01, we found ourselves past the mouth of the Straits, in latitude 53 degrees, 30 minutes ; and therefore we resolved to go round Cape Horn, and by the Straits of Le Make, January 13th, we were in latitude 57 degrees, 17 minutes, with line easy weather, and the sea as smooth as a looking-glass. By this we conjectured we were covered by some land, though we saw none, nor even the day after, though the weather was very clear. We judged ourselves shot beyond Staten-land , and yet, by our latitude, we were not past C$pe Hern , which the charts place in latitude 57 degrees 50 minutes; and it appears we were got beyond it; for, without seeing land, we found ourselves in the North Sea, by this southerly course. We continued now to advance towards the north, and, on the 19th, discovered an island not marked in the charts. It lies in latitude 52 degrees, 50 minutes, about 60 leagues east of Terra del Fuego, We called it Beauchefne. It is moderately high, and may be five or six leagues round. On founding, we found 80 fathoms sand, with white shells. 'she islands of Sebald de IVert appeared the day after, and we anchored in latitude 51 degrees, 32 minutes on the east, in 24 fathoms water. Here we found fresh water, celery, geese, and other fowls, but no wood, which we wanted most of all. We found, in our return from those isles to the coasts of Brazil , that the currents run much to the north; for, between Sebald de IVcrt and Cape Frio> our pilots erred near 200 leagues. The Portuguese at Rio de Janeiro received us civilly, and at Ilha Grande we Vol. 111 . I found
66 WILLIAM DAMP I ER, 1699. found one of the little veflels of our squadron, which V ' v ''^ had no$ been able to follow us. The other was loll on the coast of Brittany. We sailed again May 12, and entered Rochelle harbpuj August 6 th, 1701, having been out 32 mouths. - ARTICLE XXVII. WILLIAM DAMPIER's, last Voyage to Au s 1 ralasia. HE reputation of his voyage round the world, recommended our author to the favour of the most ingenious persons, and to the greatest encouragers of public-spirited undertakings that the age produced; and, amongst these, to the Right Honourable Thomas Herbert , Earl of Pembroke , who most worthily discharged the office of Lord High Admiral, in the reign ot King William 111 . to whom our author applied himself for favour and protection, as well as for his countenance in the design he had formed for prosecuting those discoveries, which his last voyage had given, him hopes might be done with effect. It is well e- nough known, that propositions of this kind are very rarely agreeable to great ministers ; which is sometimes owing perhaps to their being very indifferent judges of such matters. It was the good-fortune of Captain Dampier to address himself to a patron of quite another kind, who listened to his offers with a just degree of attention, encouraged him in that laudable ambition, which prompted him to expose himself in so noble a design, and furnished him with means for undertaking that voyage, which he had so long meditated for the public advantage. This, therefore, ought to be considered as a supplemental voyage to the last; and, indeed, in this light the author seems to have considered
to AUSTRALASIA. 67 'considered it, by his frequent references from this to 3699. that. . ^ I sailed, says he, from the Downs, January 14th, 1698-9, with a fair wind, in his Majesty's ship the Roebuck , carrying in this voyage twelve guns; fifty men and boys, and twenty months provision. We took our departure from the Start, which was the last land we saw in England, as the first we saw, after we were out of the channel, was Cape Finiflerre, which we made on the 19th ; and, on the 28th, made Lancefota, one of the Canary Islands; We then stood away for the island of Teneriff, where I intended to take in wine and brandy for my voyage. January 30th, I anchored in the road of Santa Cruz, the fittest port in the island for my purpose. The road before this place is but very indifferent, lying so open to the east, that winds from that quarter make a great swell, and render it very dangerous going ashore in boats. The best landing is in a small sandy cove, about a mile to the north-east of the road, where there is very good water ; insomuch that ships which take in their lading at Oratavia, which is the principal part of the island for trade, send their boats thither for water. That port, however, is rather more exposed to westerly, than this to easterly winds, which was the reason I declined it. There are between this watering-place and Santa Cruz two small ports, which, with several batteries, serve to command the road, and secure the place from being insulted by privateers. The time I staid here gave me all the necessary opportunities for considering the place, its inhabitants, and the country adjacent ; and therefore enabled me to form such a description of them, as may satisfy the reader's curiosity, and give him a tolerable idea of an island so often mentioned by navigators, on account of the placing here the first meridian, from which the degrees of longitude in our maps are generally reckoned. This town of Santa Cruz iss a small town, without any wall about it, and defended only by two forts. It I 2 ' was
68 WILLIAM DAMPIER, 1699. was here that our famous Admiral Blake destroyed the Spanijb galleons, April 20th, 1657, and the wrecks oi iome ot them are still lying there in fifteen fathoms water. Soon after my arrival, I went by land to the city of Lagima , the metropolis of this isle, and the residence of the present governour-general of the Canary Islands, whole name is Don Pedro de Ponto , a native of this bland, and not long ago President of Pam~- ma, in the South Seas; a very worthy man, strictly just, and very kind to strangers. The city of Laguna is of a tolerable size, and very compact, making a very agreeable prospect at a distance. It stands part of it against an hill, and part in a level. The houses have mostly strong walls, built with stone, and covered with pantile: They are not uniform ; vet they appear pleasant enough. There are many fair buildings, among which are two parish churches, two nunneries, an hospital, four convents, and some chapels, besides many gentlemens houses. The convents are these of St. Atiflin , St. Dominic , St. Francis , and St. Diego . The two churches have pretty high square steeples, which top the rest of the buildings : The streets are not regular; yet they are mostly spacious, and pretty handsome; and, near the middle of the town, there is a large parade, which has good building about it.- There is a strong prison on one side of it, near which is a large conduit of good water, that supplies the whole town. They have many gardens, which are set round with oranges, limes, and other fruits-, in the" middle of which are hot. herbs, fallading-llowers, &c. and, indeed; if the inhabitants were curious this way, they might- have very pleasant gardens; for, as the town stands high from the sea, on the brow of a plain . that is all open. to the east, and hath, consequently, the benefit of the true trade-wind which blows here, and is most commonly fair, there are feldoni. wanting,, at this town, briik, cooling, and refresiring breezes all the day. On the back of the town there is a large plain, of three or four leagues in length, and two- miles *
to AUSTRALASIA. 6g miles broad, producing a thick kindly sort of grafs, > which looked green, and very pleasant, when 1 was there, like our meadows in j England in the spring. On the east side of this plain, very near the back of the town, there is a natural lake or pond of fresh water. It is about half a mile in circumference ; but, being stagnant, it is only used for cattle to drink. In the winter, several sorts of wild-fowl resort hither, afford-*- ing plenty of game to the inhabitants of Laguna i This city is called Laguna trom hence ; for that word, in Sfanijh, signifies a lake or pond. The plain is bounded on the west, the north-west, and the southwest, with high steep hills, as high above this plain as this is above the sea; and it is from the foot of one of these mountains that the water of the conduit, which supplies the town, is conveyed over the plain in troughs of stone, raised upon pillars -, and indeed, considering the situation of the town, its large prospect to the east, (for from hence you sea the grand Canary') its gardens, cool arbours, pleasant plains, green fields, the pond and aqueduct, and its refreshing breezes, it is-a very delightful dwelling, especially for such as have not business that calls them far and often from hence ; for, the island being generally mountainous, steep, and craggy, full of risings and fallings, it is very troublesome travelling up and down in it, unless in the cool of the mornings and evenings; and mules and asses are most used by them, both for riding and carriage, as fittest for the stony uneven roads. Beyond the mountains, on the south-west side, still farther up, you may fee from the town and plain a small peeked hill overlooking the rest; this is that which is called the Pike of Tenerijf) so much noted for its height; but we saw it here at so great a disadvantage, by reason of the nearness of the adjacent mountains to us, that it looked inconsiderable in respect to its fame. The true malmsey wine is produced in this island, and is esteemed the best white wine in the world. Here u also Canary wine, and Verdona, or green wine. The Canary
?o William dameIer, *699. nary grows chiefly on the west side of the island, and w '"' therefore is commonly sent to Oratavia , which, being the chief sea port for trade in the island, the principal Englifi merchants reside there, wish their consul, be- caule we have a great trade for this wine; I was told, that that town is- bigger than Laguna ; that it has but one church, but many convents; that the port is but ordinary at best, and is very bad when the north-west winds blow. These north-west winds give notice of their coming, by a great sea that tumbles in on the iliore for some time before they come, and by a black sky in the north-west. Upon these signs ships either get up their anchors, or slip their cables, and put to lea, and ply off and on till the weather is over: Sometimes they are forced to do so two or three times before they can take in their lading, which it is hard to do here in the fairest weather ; and for frelh water they fend, as I have said, to Santa Cruz. Verdona is green, Itrong-bodied wine, harsher and slrarper than Canary. It is not so much esteemed in Europe , but is exported to the West-lndies, and will keep best in hot countries; for which reason I touched here, to take in some of it for my voyage: This fort of wine is made chiefly on the east fide of the island, and shipped off at Santa Cruz. We failed from Santa Cruz, February 4th, towards the isle of Mayo, one of the Cape Verd Islands. The 9th, being in the latitude of 15 degrees 4 minutes, we steered away west north-west for the said ifle$ where we anchored the nth in the road, which is the leeward part of the isle, in fourteen fathoms water, dean sand, and the water smooth. The isle of May is roundish, seven leagues in circuit, in 15 degrees, north latitude. On the west side of it, where the road for strips is, there is a large sandy bay, within which is a spacious salt-pond: Thole who come hither to lade fait, take it-up as it kerns, and lay it up in heaps. The Englijb have a considerable trade here in fait, which colls nothing but the labour to take it out, and wheeling
to AUSTRALASIA. 7 ? wheeling it from the pond ; and the carriage thence to 1699. the Frafe-Boat, as the seamen call it, (by which it is conveyed aboard the Ihips) being performed by mules, is very cheap. For the rest, the foil of it is generally N barren, the ground being sand, or loose stone, without any fresh-water rivers or ponds, except one spring in the centre of the isle, running through a valley, where the inhabitants have three small towns, Pinose, St. John's, and Lagoa. The inhabitants are Negroes by descent, and resemble those of Africa. As they are subjects of Portugal, so they follow their religion, but have priests and a governour of their own nation, 'Their fruits are chiefly figs, and water-melons ; their best land-animals goats and asses: The sea affords them dolphins, bonettoes, mullets, snappers, silver-fifh, gar-fith, and green tortoises, during the wet season in May, June, July, and August, which is their time of laying. It may seem somewhat strange, that not turtle only, but all sorts of amphibious creatures, lay their eggs, not in the dry, but wet season, which one would imagine might destroy them. To account for this, however, with some degree of probability, we ought to consider, that these animals all lay their eggs very deep ; so that the rain, being drank up by the sand over them, not only never reaches so as to spoil them, but checks also the rising heat; and, by keeping it down, answers all the intentions of a stove, or hot-bed. February 19th, we sailed from hence to Sr. sago, six leagues to the west and, the next day, anchored near St. sago town, lying on the south-west side of the isle, in j 6 degrees north latitude, the residence of the Portuguese governour, and of the Bifnop of all the Cape Ferd Islands. This town stands scattering against the sides of two mountains, between which there is a great valley, which is about 200 yards wide. Against the sea there is a straggling street, houses on each side, and a run of water in the bottom, which empties itself into a sine small cove, or sandy bay, where the sea is commonly
7- WILLIAM DAMPIER, 1699. commonly very smooth ; so that here is good watering w '"' and good landing at any time, though the road be rocky, and bad tor ships : Just by the landing-place there is a small fort, almost level with the sea, wher6 is always a corps-de-garde kept on the top of an hill : Above the town there is another fort, which, by the wall that is to be seen from the road, seems to be a large place : They have cannon mounted there ; but how many I know not, neither what use that fort can be of, except it be for salutes. The town may consist of 2 or 300 houses, all built of rough stone, having also one convent, and one church. The people in general are black, or at least of a rrsijted colour, except only some few of the better sort, viz. - the governour, the bishop, some of the gentlemen, and some of the padres; for some of these are black. The people a- bout Prdya are thievish but those of St. Jago town, living under their governour's eye, are more orderly, though generally poor, having but little trade ; yet, besides chance of ships of other nations, there come hither a Portuguese ship. or two every year, in their way to Brazil. These vend among them a few European commodities, and take off their principal manufactures, viz. striped cotton, which they carry with them to Brazil. Another ship also comes hither from Por- tugal for sugar, their other manufacture, and returns with it directly thither: For it is reported, that there are several small sugar-works on this island, from which they fend home near 100 tons every year: And they have plenty of cotton growing up in the country, wherewith they clothe themselves, and lend also a deal' to Brastl. They have vines, of the fruit of which ■they make some wine; but the European ships furnish them with better, though they drink but little of any. Their chief fruits are (besides plantains in abundance) oranges, lemons, citrons, melons, (both musk and water-melons) limes, guavas, pomgranates, quinces, cuftard-apples, and papahs, &c. The custard-appie (as we call it) is a fruit as big as 2 pomegranate, and much
to AUSTRALASIA. 73 much of the same colour: The outside husk-shell, or 1699. rind, is, for substance and thickness, between the shell of a pomegranate and the peel of a Seville orange, softer than this, yet more bitter than that. The coat or covering is also remarkable, in that it is beset round with small regular knobs, or risings; and the inside of the frtsit is full of a white soft pulp, Iweet, and very pleasant, and most resembling a custard of any thing, both in colour and taste •, from whence, probably, it is called a Cuftard-apple by our English : it has, in the middle, a few small black stones or kernels, but no core for it is all pulp : The tree that bears this fruit is about the bigness of a quince-tree, with long, small, and thick-set branches spread much abroad: At , the extremity of here-and there one of which. The fruit grows upon a stalk of its own, about nine or ten inches long, slender, and tough, and hanging down with its own weight. A large tree of this fort bears usually twenty or thirty apples, very seldom more. This fruit grows in most cohntries within the tropics; I have seen of them (though I omitted the description of them before) all over the PF'ejl-Indies? both continent and islands, as also in Bra/d, and in the Eajl-Indies. The papah too is found in all these countries, though I have not hitherto described it: It is a fruit about the bigness of a mustc-melon, hollow as it is, and much resembling it in shape and colour, both outside and inside ; only in the middle, instead of stat kernels, which the melons have, these have an handful of blackish seeds, about the bigness of pepper corns, whole taste is also hot on the tongue, somewhat like pepper. The fruit itself is sweet, soft, and luscious, when ripe; but, while green, is hard and unsavoury; though, even then, being boiled, and eaten with salt pork or beef, it serves instead of turneps, and is as much esteemed. The papah-tree is about ten or twelve feet high ; the body, near the ground, may be a. foot and an half, or two feet diameter, and it grows up taper to the top : It has no branches at all, but only ' Vol. III. K large
74 WILLIAM DAMPIER, 1609, large leaves growing upon stalks, which proceed out- '-'v- of the body: The leaves are of a roughish form, and jagged about the edges, having their stalks, or stumps, longer or shorter, as they grow nearer to or further from the top. They begin to spring from out of the body of the tree at about fix or seven feet high from the ground, the trunk being bare below j but, above that, the leaves grow thicker and larger till towards its top, where they are close and broad. The fruit grows only among the leaves, and thickest among the thickest of therrrj insomuch that, towards the top of the tree, the papahs spring forth from its body, as thick as they can stick one by another; but then, lower down, where the leaves are thinner, the fruit is larger, and of the size I have described; and at the top, where they are thick, they are but small, and no big- ger than ordinary turneps, yet tasted like the rest. As to the' land-animals, fowls and fish, there is nothing I can fay about them that ought to detain the reader and therefore I will proceed in my voyage, after remarking, that the road of St. lago is fb bad, that, in my life, I think I never saw one worse. We failed from St. Iage , February 2 2d, and my intention was to have gone to Fernambuca, and from thence directly to the coast of New Guinea and this, out of pure compassion to my ship's company, who were but very young seamen, there being only two in the ship that had ever pasted the Line, and those two were none of the oldest. They, therefore, grew very uneasy ; talked much of returning to England-, and, at last, gave me so much disquiet, that 1 began to doubt Fernambuca was no fit place for me to trust myself in, because, as the ship must ride two or three leagues from the town, and not under the command of any fort, they might easily, in case of my going on shore, have cut or slipt their cables, and have run away with the ship. After mature deliberation, therefore, I altered my course, and stood away for the bay of AU Sains, and arrived before the place on March 25th, and
to AUSTRALASIA. 75 4md anchored in the port very safely. Bahia de todos ios 1699. ;Santos , as the Portuguese call it, or, The Bay of All Saints, w '"' lies in the latitude of 13 degrees south, and has the conveniencyof a very good harbour, secured and commanded by three several sorts. The place itself consols of about 2000 houses, most of which are hid from the ships in the harbour-, but thosethat are seen, being intermixed with trees, afford a very pleasant and delightful prospect. There are, in the town, thirteen churches, chapels, and convents, besides one nunnery, viz. the Ecclejia major , or cathedral, and the Jesuits college, which are the chief, both in sight from the harbour-, St. Antonio , Santa Barbara , both parifh- churches -, the Franciscan church, and the Dominicans ; and two convents of Carmelites ; a chapel for seamen close by the sea-side, where boats commonly land, and *he seamen go immediately to prayers ; another chapel for poor people, at the farther end of the same street, which runs along by the shore ; and a third chapel for soldiers at the edge of the town, remote from the sea 5 and an hospital in the middle os the town. The nunnery stands at the outer edge of the town, next the fields, wherein, as I was told, are seventy nuns. Here. lives an archbishop, who has a fine palace in the town, and the governour's palace is a fine stone-building, and looks handsome to the sea, though but indifferently furnished within -, both Spanish and Portuguese , in their plantations abroad, as I have generally observed, affecting to have large houses, but are little curious about furniture, except some of them with respect to pictures. The houses of the town are two or three stories high, the wall thick and strong, being built with stone, and a covering of pantile, and many of them have balconies. The principal streets are large, and all of them paved or pitched with small stones. There are also parades in the most eminent places of the town, and many gardens, as well within the town, as in the out-parts of it, wherein are fruit-trees, herbs, salladings, and flowers, in great variety, but ordered
y 6 WILLIAM DAMPIER, 1699. with no great care nor art. The governour, who re- W '' J sides here, is called Dcm sohn de Lancastrk, being descended, as they fay, from our Englijb Lancaster family ; and he has a respect for our nation on that account, calling them his countrymen. I waited on him several times, and always found him very courteous and civil. Here are about 400 soldiers in garrison; they commonly draw up, and exercise in a large parade before the governour's house, and many of them attend him when he goes abroad. The soldiers ar? decently clad in brown linen, which, in these hot countries, is far better than woollen ; but 1 never saw any clad in linen, but only these, besides the soldiers in pay, he can soon have some thousands of men in arms upon occasion. The magazine is on the skirts of the town, on a small rising between the nunnery and the soldier's church ; it is big enough to hold 2 or 3000 barrels of powder, but I was told, it ieldom had more than 100 in it, sometimes but eighty ; there are always a company of soldiers to guard it, and centinels looking out both day and night. A great many merchants always reside at Bahia; for it is a place of great trade. 1 found here above thirty great ihipsfrom Europe^ with two of the King of Portugal' s slips of war for their convoy, besides two ships that traded to Africa only, either to Angola , Gambia , or other places on the coast of Guinea ; and abundance of snail-craft, that only run to and fro on this coast, carrying commodities from one port of Brasd to another. The merchants that live here- are laid to be rich, and to have many Kegro-slaves in their houses, both of men and \vomen. They are chiefly Portuguese , foreigners having but little commerce with them ; yet here was one Mr. Cock, an Englisa 'merchant, a, very civil gentleman, and of a good repute. He had a patent to be our Englijb consul; but did. not care to take upon him any public character, because Englijb strips seldom come ■hither, there having been none in eleven or twelve years before this time. Here was also a Danish and a French
to AUSTRALASIA. 77 French merchant, or two; but all have their effects 1699, transported to and from Europe in Portuguese ships, none of any other nation being admitted to trade hither. There is a customhouse by the fea-fide, where all goods, imported or exported, are entered; and, to prevent abuses, there are five or six boats, that take their turns to row about the harbour, searching any boats they suspect to be running goods. The chief commodities that the European ships bring hither, are linen-cloths both coarse and fine, some woollens, also bays, serges, perpetuanas, £cc. hats, stockings both silk and thread, bisquet-bread, wheat, flour, wine, (chiefly Port ) olive oil, butter, cheese, &c. and salt-beef and pork would be good commodities there. They bring hither also iron, and all manner of iron tools, pewter vessels of all sorts, as dishes, plates, spoons, &c. Looking- glasses, beads, and other toys; and the fliips that touch at St. Iago bring thence, as I said, cotton, which is afterwards sent to Angola. The European strips carry from hence sugar, tobacco, either in roll or snuff; never in leaves, that I know of. These are the staple commodities, besides which, there are dye- ■yvoods, as fustic, Scc. with woods for other uses, as speckled wood, Brasil, &c. They also carry home raw hides, tallow, train-oil of whales, Sec. Here are also kept tame monkeys, parrots, partridges, &c. which the seamen carry home. The sugar of this country is much better than that which we bring home from our plantations; for all the sugar, that is made here, is clayed, which makes it whiter and finer than our Muscovado, as we call our unrefined sugar. Our planters seldom refine any with clay, unless sometimes a little to lend home as presents for their friends in England. Their way of doing it here is, by taking some of the whitest clay, and mixing it with water, till it be like cream: With this they fill up the pans of sugar, that are funk two or three inches below the brim, by draining the melasses out of it, first scraping off the thin hard crust of the sugar, that lies at the top,
j6cj9- WILLIAM DAMPIER, top, and would hinder the water of the clay from soaking through the sugar of the pan : The refining is made by this percolation for ten or twelve days time, that the clayith liquor lies soaking down the pan: The white water whitens the sugar as it passes through it, and the gross body of the clay grows hard at the top, and may be taken off at pleasure, when scraping off with a knife the very upper part of the sugar, which will be a little sullied, that which is underneath will be white almost to the bottom ; and such as is called Brafil sugar , is thus whitened. When 1 was there, this sugar was fold for fifty shillings per hundred, and the bottoms of the pots, which is very course sugar, for about twenty shillings per hundred, both forts be- 'ing then scarce; for here was not enough to lade the ships, and therefore some of them were to lie here till the next season. The European (hips commonly arrive here in February or March ; and they have generally quick passages, finding, at that time of the year, brisk gales to bring them to the Line, little trouble then in eroding it, and brisk north-north-east winds afterwards to bring them hither. They commonly return from hence about the latter end of May, or in June. It was said, when I was here, that the ships would fail May 20th, and therefore they were all very busy, some in taking in their goods, others in careening and snaking themselves ready. The (hips that come hither commonly careen at their first coming, here being a hulk belonging to the king for that purpose. This hulk is under the charge of the superintendant I spoke of, who has a certain sum of money for every ship that careens by her. He alto provides firing, another necessaries for that purpose ; and the (hips commonly hire of the merchants here each two cables to moor by, all the time they lie here, and so save their own hempen cables ; for these are made of a sort of vegetable string, springing from the top of a tree, and in its substance resembling hair, which is very strong and lasting. There is a great trade carried on here of differerit kinds,
to AUSTRALASIA. kinds, but particularly a fort of whale-fifhing. Those 1699^ whales are but small; but, as they come in great numbers, the killing of them turns to good account, as may appear from the profit arising by the royal licences, which bring thirty thousand dollars annually to the King of Portugal, The inhabitants of this city are, generally speaking, rich; or, at lead, in very good circumstances ; so that few or none of them want their Negro-flaves for all domestic uses, by whom also they are carried, when they go abroad, in a kind of hammocks, where they lie or sit at their ease, cither covered with a curtain, or exposed, as they think proper. Besides this port, or bay of All Saints , there are two harbours much frequented in Bras I , viz. Pernam - buca, or Fernambuca , and Rio "Janeiro ; and, besides these, there is a town and haven called St. Paul's , near which they gather much gold ■, but the people are said to be a sort of banditti, without laws, order, or government : But, however, as they have a great deal of money, they are very well furnished with European commodities. Indeed money is every-where plenty in this country since the discovery of the gold-mines ; which must increase the regret of the Dutch i who were once masters of the best part of Brafil. The country about the city of Babia de todos les Santos is flat, neither very high, nor excessive low, sufficiently watered with rivers and rivulets. The foil is, generally speaking, pretty good ; and when cultivated, produces, besides other vegetables, sugar-canes, cotton, indico, tobacco, maize, and fruit-trees ; as also some other trees peculiar to this country ; as the sapiera, vermiatico, comasteric, gritteba, ferric, three forts of mangrove-trees, and as many forts of cotton- trees, both wild and planted. They have also a sort of bastard cocoa-nut tree, not near so big as the common ones in the East or IVeft-Indies. The kernel is sweet, but hard. At the top of these cocoa-trees grows a black thread, like horse hair, but longer, of which they make cables, that are more serviceable and lasting
So i WILLIAM DAMPIER, 1699. lasting than those made of hemp. The rest of their w '" / fruits are oranges of several sorts, especially China o- ranges, limes, pomegranates, pomecitrons, plantains, bananas, right cocoa-nuts, guavas, cocoa-plums, wild grapes, (betides European grapes) bog-plums, custard - apples, sourseps, cashews, papahs, jennipans, œan- chineel-apples, and mangoes, (though these last are but rare as yet) arisahs, mericasahs, potangoes, &c. (Fruits not to be seen in other countries) petumbos, munga- reos, mackilhaws, inguas, otee, musteran de ovas, palm-berries, physic-nuts, cabbage-trees, &c. They have also abundance of ground-fruit; such as callavan- ces, pine-apples, pompions, water-melons, mustc-me- lons, cucumbers -, of yams, potatoes, cassavas ; of garden-herbs, cabbages, turneps, onions, leeks, and all sorts of sallading. They have great plenty and variety of wild fowls -, viz. yammas, maccas, (a large forts of parrots), common parrots, stamingoe'Sj carrion- crows, chattering crows, cuckcoos, curious coloured bill-birds, corressoes, turtle-doves, pigeons, jaune- tees, clocking-hens, crab-catchers, currecoss, Muscovy ducks, common ducks, widgeons, teal, curlews, men-of-war birds, boobies, noddies, pelicans, &c. The chief of their tame fowl are ducks, and other dunghill fowls. Of these they have two sorts, one of the fame size with ours, and another larger, which are fold at a dear rate here. Their land-animals are, horses, black cattle, sheep, goats, coneys, hogs, leopards, tygers, monkeys, pecary, (a sort of wild hogs), armadilos, alligators, guanoes, lizards, serpents, frogs, and a sort of amphibious creature called Cochora de Aqua by the Portuguese, and water-dogs by the English, from their resemblance to a shaggy mastiff-dog, with four short legs. They have here also the amphis- haena, or two-headed snake, of a grey colour, with black streaks. Its bite is reckoned incurable : The best is, that it seldom wounds. Having two specks in the head, instead of eyes, some fay it is altogether blind, and lives under ground, like a mole. Its length
to AUSTRALASIA. is about fourteen inches, with an head at each end ; 1699. whence the Portuguese call it Cobra de dos Cabases, i. e. w '" 1 The snake with two heads but I never saw one of these. The sea hereabouts affords tarpeins, mullets, groop- ers, fnocks, gar-fish, gorasses, baramas, coqurndas, cavaiiies, dog-fish, herrings, feroco, oleo de boy, whales, lobsters, cray-fish, shrimps, crabs, common oysters, conchs, wiiks, cockles, muscles, periwinkles, and three forts of sea-tortoifes ; œ. the hawidbill, loggerhead, and green tortoise. The first is the most e- iteemed, its shell being the most beautiful, and therefore fold very dear, and is a very considerable commodity. April zd, in the morning, we failed from this harbour ; and, at twelve o'clock, Cape Sahadore bore north, distant six leagues. The 27th, wecameinthh latitude of the Abrohlo snoles, viz, in 18 degrees and 19 degrees south latitude. May zd, at 20 degrees, our meridian distance from Cape Salvadore was 234 miles, the variation 7 degrees. Tire 12th, being in 3 1 degrees, 10 minutes south latitude, we began to have west winds ; but met with nothing of moment, except a dead whale, the carcase whereof was entirely covered with birds of divers forts, as pintado-birds, shearwaters, petrels, &c. We law also abundance of sea-weeds, in 39 degrees 32 minutes south latitude', near the meridian of the iste Tristan d'Acunna, as laid down by the Portuguese. June 2d, I saw a large black fowl, with a white flat bill, which is said never ro sty above thirty leagues from the Cape of Good Hope-, whereas, according to my account, we were ninety leagues from thence-, but, soon after found, I was not above twenty-five leagues from the Cape. June 3d, steering to the east, we saw a fail, which proved the Antelope of London , coming the day before from the Cape. We kept company till the next day, when they steered for the Eas-Indies, and I for the coast of New Holland , lying north-north-east from the Cape. We did not lose sight os one another till June 6th. Vol. Ui. L The
8z 'WILLIAM DAMFIER, *699. The 7th, it was very tempestuous weather, and the wind continued pretty, high till the i6di, and moderate till the 19th, the wind from west-north-west to south by west, when we had run 6qo leagues, and were in 34 degrees, 17 minutes south latitude, and 39 degrees, 24 minutes longitude east from the Cape. The winds continued at north-east by east till the 27th, and after T wards between north-north-west and sou th-south-west till the 4th of July, in which space we sailed 782 miles: All which time we met with nothing of remark, except some birds and whales, especially as we came nearer to the shore. About ninety leagues from the land, we began to fee lea-weeds, and, about thirty leagues distant, some Ikuttle-bones floating on the water. July 25, being in 26 degrees, 14 minutes, south latitude, and 85 degrees, 52 minutes, longitude east from the Cape of Good Hope , we saw more sea-weed, like moss. The 28th, the fame increased upon us; and, the 29th, we saw Ikuttle-bones, bonetos, and stiip-jacks, a fish of eight inches long, not unlike a roch. The 30th, we saw more Ikuttle-bones and sea-weeds, and a sort of fowls we had not seen before, of a grey colour, with red sharp bills, but for the. rest, net unlike lapwings. August 2, we stood in towards the land, to look for an harbour to refresh ourselves, after a voyage of 114 degrees from Brastl. We saw an opening in 26 degrees south latitude but, finding nothing b,\u rocks and foul, ground, we stood oft'again the 2d. The 4th, we had 60 degrees 56 minutes, and sifty-five fathoms water ; and, the 5th, fa^v land again, ten leagues distant, irt 25 degrees 30 minutes south latitude. The Hth, we saw an opening in the land, in which we anchored in two fathoms and an half of water, August 7. I called the mouth of this found Bay, lying in 25 degrees south latitude, and, according to our reckoning, in 87 degrees longitude east from the Cape of Good Hope , which is less by 195 leagues than is laid down in the common draughts. The land is pretty high, bur the stiore steep to tfie sea. The mould is sand by the seaside.
o so AUSTRALASIA. 83 side, prodding a large sort of sarnphirej which bears 1699. a white flower. Farther in, the should is reddilh, mixed with a fort of a sand, producing some grass, plants, and shrubs. The grafs grows in great tufts, as big as a bulhel, here and there a tuft, being intermixed .with a great deal of heath, much of the kind we have growing on our commons in England. Of trees and shrubs here are divers forts-, but none above ten feet high, their bodies about three feet round, and five or six feet high before you come to the branches, which are bushy, and composed of small twigs there, spreading abroad, though thick-fet, and full of leaves, which were mostly long and narrow. The colour of the leaves was one side whitish, and on the other green ; and the bark of the trees was generally of tile fame colour with the leaves, of a pale gteetl. Some of these trees were sweet- scented, and reddish within the bark, like sassafras, but darker. Most of the trees and shrubs had, at this time, either blossoms or berries on them. The blossoms of the different forts of trees are of divers colours, as red, white, yellow, &c. but mostly blue and these smelt very sweet and fragrant, as did also some of the rest. There were, besides, some plants, herbs* and tall flowers j some very small flowers growing on the ground, that were sweet and beautiful, and;, for the most part, unlike any I had seen elsewhere. There were but few land-fowls : I saw none, but eagles, of the larger fort of birds, but live or fix sorts of small birds* The largest fort of these were no bigger than larks, some no bigger than wrens, all singing with great variety of fine shrill notes; and we saw some of their nestS, with young ones in them. The water-fowls are ducks, (which had young-ories* this being the beginning of the Spring in those parts,) curlews, galdens, crabcatchers, cormorants, gulls, pelicans, and some water-fowl, such as I have not seen any where besides. The land-animals-, that we saw here, were only a sort of maccroons, different from those in the West-Indies, chiefly as to their legs, upon which they jump, as the rest bf their fpe-i L % cies
o 84 WILLIAM DAMPIER, 1699. c:es do, and are, like them, very good meat; and a fort of guanas, but differing from them in some remarkable particulars ; for these had a larger and more frightful, head, and had no tail; and, at the rump, where.a tail should have been placed, there appeared something resembling an head ; but without mouth or eyes. Their legs also differed from other creatures of the same kind, by their appearing to be so made, as to carry the body either way ; which, with the particular before-mentioned, might make a common spectator apprehend this creature had two heads. They were speckled black and yellow, like toads ; and had scales on their backs, like crocodiles. They are very flow in motion-, and, when-a man comes nigh them, they will stand stock-still, and hiss, without endeavouring to get away ; and the body, when opened, hath a very unsavoury smell. I never law such ugly creatures any where, but here. The guanas, in other parts, I have observed to be very good meat, and have often eat of them with great satisfaction; but, though I have eaten of snakes, crocodiles, and alligators, yet, 1 believe, the quickest sense of hunger would not have tempted me to taste the guana of New Holland. The sea-fish we saw here, (for there was no frefh-water of any kind to be seen,) are chiefly sharks. There are abundance of them in this found; which was the reason 1 called it Sharks Bay. There were alto skates, thornbacks, and other fish of the prey-kind, (one fort especially like the sea-devil,) and guardfifh, bonatos, &c. Ot shellfish we got also there rnuscels, periwinkles, limpets, oysters, both of the pearl-kind, and of such as were eatable, besides cockles, &c. The shore w's lined thick with many other forts of very strange and beautiful shells, of variety of colour and fhape^most finely spotted with red, yellow, &c. such as 1 have not seen any where, but at this place. I brought away a great many of them ; but lost all, except a very few, and those not of the best. There are also some green turtles, weighing about 200 Ib. Of these we caught two, which the wa- v ter
to AUSTRALASIA. 85 ter ebbing had left behind a ledge of rocks, which they 1699. could not creep over. These served all my company W ' J two days, and they were indifferent sweet meat. Of the sharks we caught a great many, which our men eat very savourily. Among these we caught one, that was eleven feet long. The space between its two eyes was twenty inches, and eighteen inches from one corner of its mouth to the other. Its maw was like a leather- sack, very thick, and so tough, that a sharp knife could scarce cut it; in which we found the head and bones of an hippopotamus, the hairy lips of which were still found, and not putrefied ; and the jaw was also firm, out of which we plucked a great many teeth, two of them eight inches long, and as big as a man's thumb, small at one end, and a little crooked ; the rest not above half so long. The maw was full of jelly, which stunk extremely ; however, I saved for a while the teeth, and the shark's jaw. The fiefh of it was divided among my men, and they took care that no waste should be made of it, but thought it, as things stood r good entertainment. We anchored ar three several places in this bay, Aug. 7, at the west side. Here we staid till the 10th. We searched for fresh water-, but found none : However, we got some wood for fuel. The 1 uh, we steered farther in ; towards afternoon saw the land, that makes the south of the bay; but meeting with tholes, I steered away to the east; and, the 12th, passed the north, point of the land, and stood farther into the bay, to see what land we could observe to the east, which we saw right a-he ad ; but, having but shoal-water, I made the best of mMvay to return to the west entrance. The 14th, I failed again out of this bay to the north-east, coasting along the lliore. The 15th, we were in 24 degrees 41 minutes; and, the 16th, at 23 degrees 22 minutes. The 17th, we saw land again. The 18th, we saw abundance of wEales near a shoal point, in 22 . * degrees 22 minutes; and, the 19th, in 21 degrees 42 minutes; the 20th, at 19 degrees 37 minutes. The 21st,
86 WILLIAM DAMPIER, 1699. 2 1 st, we saw abundance of sea-snakes, of two different w ' 4 ' forts and shapes. At noon, bearing in south-east by east, the land appeared like a cape ; bpt; anchoring about five leagues from the Blujs-Point , it proved thfc east end of an iste, six leagues in length, and one in breadth; being surrounded on all sides with many other small rocky isles, which, in all appearance, are a range of islands, stretching from north-north-east to west-soutlv- wcst, perhaps as far as Sharks Bay ; and nine or ten leagues in breadth towards New Holland. The tides I met with a little while after gave me a suspicion, that there might be a kind of Archipelago of isles, and a passage to the south of New Holland and New Guiney into the great south sea eastward ; but, being in want of water, I would not attempt the discovery of it. This place is in 20 degrees 21 minutes; whereas Tafman, in his tiraught, has laid it down in 19 degrees 50 minutes, and has represented the land as joining in one ridge to the continent. We went ashore in the Isle of Bluff-Point ; where we found two or three shrubs, one like rosemary; whence I called it Rosemary IJle-, and two sorts of grain, like beans, one growing on bushes, the other on a kind of creeping vine. We saw also some cormorants, gulls, crabcatchers, &c. as also limpets, periwinkles, oysters, on the rocks, some green tortoises, sharks, and water- fnakes. The 23d, we ran out again; and, the 25th, we still coasted along. The 27th and 28th, we saw no land; but, the 30th, in 18 degrees 21 minutes, made the land, and anchored in eight fathoms water; thirty leagues from the shore. August 3a, being in 18 degrees 21 minutes, we made the land again,- and saw many great smokes near the shore and, having fair weather and moderate breezes, 1 steered in towards it. At four in the afternoon, I anchored in eight fathoms water, clear sand, about three leagues and an half from the shore. I pre sently sent my boat to sound nearer in, and they found ten fathoms about a mile nearer the shore; and, from thence still farther in, the water decreased gradually to fiine,
to AUSTRALASIA. Sf pine, eight, seven, and, at two miles distance, to six 1609. fathoms. This evening, we saw an eclipse of the moon; but it was abating before the moon appeared to us; for the horizon w^s very hazy, so that we could not fee the moon, till sine had been half an hour above the horizon; and, at two hours twenty-two minutes after sun-set, by the reckoning of our glasses, the eclipse was quite gone, which was not of many digits. The moon's centre was then 33 degrees 4 minutes high. The gist be-, times in the morning, I went ashore with.ten or eleven men, to search for water. We went all of us armed with muskets and cutlasses for our defence, expecting to fee people there, and carried also Ihovels and pickaxes to dig wells. When we came near the Ihore, we saw three tall, black, naked men, on the sandy bay a head of us; but, as we rowed in, they went away. When we were landed, 1 lent the boat, with two men in her, to lie a little from the Ihore at anchor, to prevent her being seized, while the rest of us went after the three black men, who were now got up to the top of a small hill, about a quarter of a mile from us, with eight or nine more men in their company. They, feeing us come, ran away. When we came on the top of the hill where they first stood, we saw a plain favan- na, about half a mile from us. Farther in from the sea, there were several things like haycocks standing in the favanna, which, at a distance, we thought were houses, looking just like the Hottentots houses at the Cape of Good Hope ; but we found them to be so many rocks. We searched about these for water; but could find none, nor any house, nor people for they wer^ all gone. Then we turned again to the place where we landed, and there we dug for water. While we were at work, there came nine or ten of the natives to a small hill, a little way from us, and stood there menacing and threatening us, and making a great noise. At last pne of them came towards us, and the rest followed at a distance. J went out to meet him, and came
*8 WILLIAM DAMPIER i6gg. came within fifty yards of him, making to him all the signs of peace and friendship I could ; but then he ran away, neither would any one of them stay for us to come nigh them, though we tried three^or four times. At last, I took two men with me, and went in the afternoon along by the sea-fide, on purpose to catch one of them, if I could, of whom I might learn where they got their fresh water. There were ten or twelve of the natives a little way off, who, feeing us three going away from the rest,of our men, followed us at a distance. I thought they would follow us; but, there being for a while a sand-bank between us and them, that they could not then fee us, we made an halt, and hid ourselves in a bending of the sand-bank. They knew we must be thereabouts j and, being three or four times our number, thought to seize us: So they dispersed themselves, some going to the fea-shore, and others beating about the sand-hills. We knew, by what rencounter we had with them in the morning, that we could easily outrun them; so a nimble young man, that was with me, seeing some of them there, ran towards them, and they, for some time, ran away before him ; but he soon overtaking them, they faced about, and fought him. He had a cutlass, and they had wooden lances, with which, being many of them, they were too hard for him. When he first ran towards them, I chased two more, that were by the shore; but, fearing how it might be with my young man, I turned back quickly, and went up to the top of a sandy hill, whence I saw him near me, closely engaged with them. Upon their seeing me, one of them threw a lance at me, which narrowly miffed me. I discharged my gun to scare them; but avoided shooting any of them, till, finding the young man in great danger, and myself in some, and that, though the gun had a little frightened them at first, yet they had soon learnt to despise it, tossing up their hands, and crying, pooh, pooh , pooh , and coming on afresh with a great noise, I thought it high time to charge again, and shoot one of them ; which I did.
to AUSTRALASIA, 89 'did. The rest, seeing him fall, made a stand ; and my 1699. young man took the opportunity to disengage himself, and come off to me. My other man also was with me, ■who hid done nothing all this while, having come out tinarmed ; and I returned back with my men, designing to attempt the natives no further, being very sorry for what had happened already. They took up their Wounded companion; and my young man, who had been struck through the cheek with one of their lances,* was afraid it had been poisoned; but I did not think that likely. His wound was very painful to him, being made with a blunt weapon ; but he soon recovered of it. Among the New-Hollanders , whom we were thus "engaged with, there was one, who by his appearance and carriage, as well in the morning as this afternoon, seemed to be the chief of them, and a kind of prince or captain among them. He was a young brisk man, hot very tall, nor so personable as some of the rest. though more active and courageous. He was painted (which none of the rest were at all,) with a circle of white pigment, a sort of lime, as we thought, about his eyes, and a white streak down his nose, from his forehead to the tip of it and his breast, and some part of his arms, were also made white with the fame paint: Not for beauty and ornament, one would think; but, as some wild Indian warriors are said to do, he seemed thereby to design the looking more terrible, this his painting adding very much to his natural deformity; for they all of them have the most unpleasant looks, and the worst features, of any people I ever saw, though I have seen great variety of savages. These Nezv-Hol- landers were probably the fame sort of people as those I met with on this coast in my voyage round the globe; for the place I then touched at was not above forty or fifty leagues to the north-east of this, and these were much the fame blinking creatures: Here being also abundance of the fame kind of flesh-flies teizing them, and with the fame black skins, and hair frizzled, tall, thin, &c. as these were; but we had not the opportu- Vot. III M nity
20 WILLIAM DAMPIER. 1699. nity to see whether these, as the former, wanted two of their fore-teeth. We law a great many places where they had many fires, and where there were commonly three or four boughs stuck up to the windward of them; for the wind, which is the sea-breeze in the daytime, blows always one way with them, and the land- breeze is but small. By their fire-places we always found great heaps of fish-shells of several sorts; and it is probable, that these poor creatures here lived on the sheil-filh, as those I described before did on small fish, which they caught in wires, or holes in the sand at low water. These gathered their shell-fish on the rocks at low water, but had no wires that we saw, whereby to get any other sorts of fish, as, among the former, 1 law not any heaps of shells as here, though 1 know they also gathered some shell-fish: The lances also of these were such as the former had; however, they being upon an island with their women and children, and all in our power, they did not there use them against us, as here on tire continent, where we saw none but some of the men at a distance, who came out purposely to observe us: We saw no houses at either place ; and I believe they have none, since the former people of the' island had none, though they had all their families with them. Upon returning to my men, I saw that they had dug eight or nine feet deep, yet found no water: So I returned aboard that evening, and the next day, being September 1, I sent my boatswain ashore to dig deeper, and sent the seine with him to catch fish. While 1 staid aboard, I observed the flowing of the tide, which runs very swift here, so that our nun-buoy would not bear above the water to be seen. It flows here, as on the part of Neiv-HoIIandl described formerly, about five fathoms; and here the flood runs south-east by south, till the laid quarter ; then it sets right in towards the shore, which lies here south-south-west and north-novth-east, and the ebb runs north-west by north. When the tides slackened, we fished with hook and line, as we had .. already done in several places en this coast, on which, in
to AUSTRALASIA. 91 in this voyage hitherto, we had found but little tides-, but, by the height, strength, and course of them hereabouts, it should seem, that if there be such a passage or streight going through eastwards to the Great South Sea, as I said one might suspect, one would expect to find the mouth of it somewhere between this place and Rosemary Island, which was the part of New-Holland I came last from. If it were not for that fort of pleasure which results from the discovery even os the barren nest spot upon the globe, this coast of New-Holland would not have charmed me much. The lands here, as well as in other parts of New.-Holhnd that I have seen, are so fenced by a chain of sand-hills towards the sea, that there is no such thing as discerning what lies beyond them; at high water the tides rife so surprisingly on this coast, that the land appears very low-, but, at low water again, it appears of an indifferent height; but then the store is so rocky, that there is no such thing as landing with a boat; but at high water a boat may very easily come in over all these rocks to the sandy bay which surrounds this coast. The land, for about 5 or 600 yards from the sea, is of a dryish sandy soil, with nothing but a few so rubs and husoes, which, when I was there, seemed to be in bloom, bearing flowers of several colours, such as yellow, blue, and white, of a very fragrant smell: And, as to their fruit, they seem to be a kind of pease or beans. Farther within land, the country seemed to below and level, partly savannas, and partly wood-land '1 he former affords a coarse kind of grafs, and the latter groves of trees that are small, and not above twelve or fourteen feet high. There are very few land-ani- mals ; some lizards I saw, and some of my seamen law two or three creatures not unlike wolves, but so lean, that they looked like mere skeletons. As for land- fowls, there are crows, hawks, kites, and turtle-doves, that are small, but very plump and fat. The fea-fowla are pelicans, boobies, noddies, curlecos, and sea-pies, in great numbers. There are abundance of whales tn these M 2 leas. 1699.
92 WILLIAM DAMPIER, 1699. seas, and those of the larger kind : We saw also green, turtle, but there being no proper channel for them, we caught none, as having no place to set a turtle-net in. We saw some sharks, and caught, with hooks and lines, some rock-fish and old-wives. Of shell-fish, we found here oysters of the pearl-kind, and fit for eating; and wilks, muscles, limpets, periwinkles, and many other forts : and 1 gathered some curious, shells on the shore. The scurvy beginning to prevail amongst my men, gave me great uneasiness; especially, as I had reason to apprehend that the distemper would increase, rather than diminish, while I remained here, on account of the bad air, and brackish water-, and therefore I frequently sent. ashore to search for fresh-water brooks, or to dig wells, but to no purpose: Wherefore I determined to proceed in my voyage; and, if I met with no refreshment elsewhere, to prosecute my course to the island of Timor . I had spent about five weeks in ranging off and on. the coast of New-Holland , in length of about 300 leagues; and had put in at three several places to fee what there might be thereabouts worth discovering, and, at the same time, to recruit my stock of fresh-water and provisions, for the farther discoveries I purposed to attempt on the Terra AEJiralis. This large, and hitherto almost unknown, tract of land, is situated so very ad- yaptageousiy, in the richest climates of the world, the Torrid and Temperate Zones, having in it, especially, all the advantage of the Torrid Zone, as being known to reach from the Equator itself (within a degree) to the Tropic of Capricorn , and beyond it; that in coasting round it, which 1 designed by this voyage, if possible, I could not but hope to meet with some fruitful lands, continent or island, or both, productive of any of the rich fruits, drugs, or spices, (perhaps minerals also, &c.) that are in the other parts of the Torrid Zone, under equal parallels of latitude, at least a soil and air capable of such, upon transplanting them hither, and cultivation. I meant also to make as diligent a survey as I could of the several smaller islands, shores, capes, bays, creeks. 1
to MAGELLAN I CA. 93 creeks, and harbours, fit as well for stielter as' defence, 1699, upon fortifying them ; and of the rocks and Iholes, the soundings, tides, and currents, wind and weather variation, &c. whatever might be beneficial for navigation, trade, or settlement, or be of use to any who should prosecute the same designs hereafter, to whom it might be serviceable to have so much of their work done to their hands, which they might advance and perfect; by their own repeated experiences. As there is no work of this kind brought to perfection at once, I intended, especially, to. observe what inhabitants I met with, and to try to win them over to somewhat of traffic, and useful intercourse, as there might be commodities among any of them that migl^t be fit for, trade or manufacture, or any found in which they might be employed ; though, as. to the New-Hollanders hereabouts, by the experience I had of their neighbours formerly, I expected no great matters from them. With such views as these I set out at first from England ; and would, according to the method I proposed, have gone westward through the Magellanic Streight, or round 'Terra del Faego rather, that I might have begun my discoveries upon the eastern and least-known side of the Terra Aujlralis : But, that way was not possible for me to go, by reason of the time of year in which Icamo out; for 1 must have been compassing the south of America in a very high latitude, in the depth of the winter: 1 was therefore necessitated to go eastward by the Cape of Good Hope: and, when 1 should be past it, it was requisites should keep in a pretty high latitude, to avoid the general trade-winds that would be against me, and to have the benefit of the variable winds, by all which I was in a manner unavoidably determined to fall in first with those ports of New-Holland I have hitherto been describing: For, should it be a sited, why, at my first making that shore, I did not cast into the southward, and that way to try to get round to the east of New- Holland, and New-Guiney , I confess, 1 was not for spending any time more than was necessary in the higher la- tudes,
94 WILLIAM DAMPIER, 1699 tucles, as knowing that the land there could not be so well worth the discovery, as the parts that lay nearer the Line, and more directly under the fun. Besides, at the time when I should come first on New-Holland, which was early in the Spring, I must, had I stood eastward, have had, for some time, a great deal of winter-weather, increasing in severity, though not in time, and in a place altogether unknown, which my men, who were heartless enough to the voyage at best, would never have borne, after so long a run from Brasd hither. For these reasons, therefore, I chose to coast along to the northward, and so to the east; and thought to come round by the south of Terra Aujlralis in my return back, which should be in the summer-season there. And this passage back also 1 now thought I might possibly be able to shorten, should it appear, at my getting to the east coast of New Guiney , that there is a channel coming out into those seas, as I now suspected, near Rosemary, island, unless, the high tides, and great indraught thereabouts, should be occasioned by the mouth of some large river, which hath often lowlands on each side of its outlet, and many islands and sholes lying at its entrance. But I rather thought it a channel, or streight, than a river; and I was afterwards confirmed in this opinion, when, by coasting New-Guiney , I found, that other parts of this great track os Terra AuflraUs, which had hitherto been represented as the shore of a continent, were certainly islands, and, it is probable, the fame with New-Holland ; though, for reasons 1 shall afterwards shew, 1 could not return the way I proposed to myself to fix the discovery. All that I had now seen from the 27 degrees, south latitude, to the 25 degrees^ which is Shark's Bay , and again from thence to Rosemary islands, and about 20 degrees latitude, seems to be nothing but ranges of pretty large islands against the sea, whatever might be behind them to the eastward, whether sea or land, continent or islands. It was now necessary for me to consider what step to take next; and, after mature deliberation, I resolved to continue coast-
*r o AUSTRALASIA: ZZ ing along the shore to the north-eastward, in order to i6 99 ' the further discovery of the country, from a full per- W '' J suasion, that, at least, in the latitude of 16 degrees 15 minutes* I should not miss of sweet water, having been there before, and met with it by digging. This notion was certainly reasonable in itself, and yet experience shewed it was but indifferently founded ; and a very little accident of this fort became of consequence among a crew ready to lay hold of any opportunity to call their commander's knowledge in question, to magnify the difficulties of the voyage, and to countenance whatever might seem to support their own favourite, though impracticable design of returning home. Such, I say, were my thoughts of the matter; when, Sept. 5th, 1699, I put to sea with a gentle gale; yet was I quickly obliged to change my design. In a day's time I perceived, that the shales upon the coast would make it a very difficult, if not impracticable thing to fail along the shore, or to put in where I might incline to do it. I therefore edged farther off to sea, and so depthened the water from eleven to thirty-two ffithoms. The next day, being September 6th, we could but just discern the land, though we had then no more than about thirty fathoms uncertain soundings for, even while we were out of sight of land, we had once but seven fathoms, and had also great and uncertain tides, whirling about* that made me afraid to go near a coast so shallow, where we might be soon aground, and yet have but little wind to bring us off: For, should a ship be near a shole, we might be hurled upon it unavoidably by a strong tide, unless there should be a good wind to work her off. Thus, also, on the 7th day, we saw no land, though our water decreased again to twenty-six fathoms; for we had depthened it, as I said, t® thirty. This day we saw two water-snakes, different in shape from such as we had formerly seen the one was very small, though long ; the other long, and as big as a man's leg, having a red head, which I never saw any have before or since. We had this day
96 WILLIAM DAMPIER, 1699. day 16 degrees, 9 minutes latitude by observation W '" / I was by this time to the north of the place I thought to have put in at; and though I knew, by the experience 1 had of it then, that there was a deep entrance in thither from the eastward, yet, by the sholes I had hitherto found so far stretched on this coast, I was a- fraid we should have the same trouble to coast along afterwards beyond that place; and, besides the danger of running almost continually amongst sholes on a strange shore, and where the tides were strong and high, I began to bethink myself, that a great part of my time must have been spent in being about a shore I Was already almost weary of, which I might employ with greater satisfaction to my mind, and better hopes of success, in going forward to New-Guinea : Add to this, the particular danger I should have been in upon a lee-lhore, such as is here described, when the northwest monsoon should once come in, the ordinary season of which was not now far off, though this year it staid beyond the common season; and it comes on storming, at first, with tornadoes, violent gusts, &c. Wherefore, quitting the thoughts of putting in at New-Holland , 1 resolved to steer away for the Island Timor , where, besides getting fresh water, I might probably expect to be furnished with fruits, and other refreshments, to recruit my men, who began to droop, some of them being already, to my grief, afflicted with scurvy, which was likely to increase upon them, and disable them, and was promoted by the brackish water they took in last for boiling their oatmeal. It was now, also, towards the latter end of the dry season, when I might not, probably, have found water so plentifully upon digging at that part of New-Holland t as when i was there before : And then, considering the time also that I must necessarily spend in getting into the shore, through such sholes as I expected to meet with, or in going about to avoid them, or in digging of wells, when 1 should come thither, I might very well hope to get to Timor t and find fresh water there.
to AUSTRALASIA. 97 there, as soon as I could expect to get it at New-Hol~ 1699. land, and with less trouble and danger. Such were w *'"' the reasons that conduced to my forming a settled resolution to bear away immediately for the before-men- tioned island, which I executed without delay. It was on September 8th, that we sailed for 'Timor , where I had heard there were both Dutch and Portuguese settlements; but whereabouts in the island, I knew not -, and therefore it was the same thing to me which side of it I made sirit. On the 14th, in the e- vening, 1 had sight of it; but it was the 15th before I attempted to land. The country appears pleasant e- nough to the eye ; for the mountains were covered with wood, and the adjacent meadows were very rich in grafs, though we could discover no signs of inhabitants, much less of European plantations. This, and the wind's blowing again from the south-east, engaged me to try what might be done on the north side of the island, where I was sure of having smooth water, and had a probability of finding easier landing ; for, on the side where I was, the land was so incumbered with. mangroves, that there was no such thing as getting ashore without running great hazards. On the 18th, about noon, I altered my course, and steered back towards the south-west end of the island. In the evening, we saw the island of Rotee , and another island to the south of that; on both which islands we discovered smoke in the day-time, and sires in the n.ght. 1 was afterwards informed, that the Portuguese have sugar - works upon the island of Rotee; bm, as L knew nothing of that then, and the country had not a very promising atpect, I did not attempt anchoring there, but stood over again to the coast of Timor. On the List, in the morning, being very near that island, I saw a very large opening, which, from east to west, appeared to be five leagues in breadth; into which I entered with my ship, lounding as I went; and, at last, anchored in nine fathoms water, at the distance of about a league from the shore. This appeared to me Vol. 111. N .then
98 WILLIAM DAMPIER, i<Sp9- then as a large inlet or bay, which entered very deep' w "' into the island of Timor ; but I afterwards found, that it was really a streight or passage between that and another island, called Anamabao , or Anabao. I was led into my mistake by the fea-charts, which represent both sides of the opening as parts of the fame coast, making the whole but one island, and calling it by the name of Timor. Such errours as these are frequent, happening sometimes through accidents, sometimes from design; and therefore a greater service cannot be rendered' to navigators in general, than to rectify such mistakes; and, it would be well, if those who make maps and charts would be careful in perusing voyages, and not content themselves with barely copying inch draughts as come to hand, by which means they frequently adopt, not only the mistakes, but the mischievous designs of others, who, by false representations, endeavour to conceal what ought to be made known for the public good. I proposed to have failed through this opening to the main; but I had not failed far, before the wind came about to the south-east, and blew so strong, that I could not venture with safety nearer that side, because it was a lee-shore ; besides my boat was on the east side of the Timor coast; for the other was, as I found afterwards, the Anabao shore; and the great opening I now was in, was the Strait between that island and Timor ; towards which I now tacked, and stood over. Taking up my boat, therefore, I ran under the Timor fide, and anchored at three o'clock, in 29 fathoms water, half a mile from the shore. That port of the south-west point of Timor , where we anchored in the morning, bore now south by west, distance three leagues; and another point of the island bore north- north-east, distance two leagues. Not long after, we saw a sloop coining about the point last-mentioned with Dutch colours, which 1 found, by sending my boat a- board, belonged to a Dutch fort, the only one they have in Timor, about five leagues from hence, called Ccncordia.
to AUSTRALASIA. 99 Goncordia. The governour of the fort was in the sloop, 1699. and about forty soldiers with him. He appeared to be sor " somewhat surprised at our coming this way, which, it seems, is a passage scarce known to any but themselves, as he told the men I sent to him in my boat - neither did he seem willing, that we should come near their fort for water. He said also, that he did not know of any water on all that part of the island, but only at the fort; and that the natives would kill us, if they met us ashore. By the small-arms my men carried with them in the boat, they took .us to be pirates, and would not easily believe the account my men gave them of what we were, and whence we came. They said, that, about two years before this, there had been a stout ship of French pirates here; and that after having been suffered to water and refresh themselves, and been kindly used, they had on a sudden gone a- mong the Indians, subjects of the fort, and plundered them, and burnt their houses. And the Portuguese here told us afterwards, that those pirates, whom they also had entertained, had burnt their houses, and had .taken .the Dutch fort, (though the Dutch cared not to ■own so much) and had driven their governour and factory among the wild Indians, their enemies. The Dutch told my men further, they could not but think we had of several nations (as is usual with pirate-vessels) in our ship, apd particularly some Dutchmen ; though .all the discourse was in French , for I had not one who .could speak Dutch: Or else, since the common draughts make no passage between Timor and Anabao , but laid down both as an island, they said, they suspected we had plundered some Dutch ship of their particular draughts, which they are forbid to part with. With these jealousies, the sloop returned towards their fort, and my boat came back with this news to me. But I was not discouraged at this news, not doubting but I should persuade them better when I should come to talk with them. So the next morning I weighed, and stood towards the fort: The winds were some- . N 2 what
100 WILLIAM DAM PIER, 1699. what against us, so that we could not go very fast, be- ing obliged to tack two or three times ; and, coming near the farther end of the passage, between Timor and Anaboa , we saw many houses on each side, not far from the sea, and several boats lying by the shore. The land on both sides is pretty high, appearing very dry, and of a reddish colour, but highest on the Timor side. The trees on either side were but small, the wood thin; and, in many places, the trees very dry and withered. The Isiand Ammabao , or Anabao , is not very big, not exceeding ten leagues in length, and four in breadth ; yet has two kingdoms in it; viz. that of A~ namabao on the east side towards Timor , and the north-east end , and that of Anabao, which contains the south-west end, and the west side of the island ; but I know not which of them is biggest. The natives of both are of the Indian kind, of a swarthy copper-colour, with black lank hair. Those of Anamabao are jn league with the Dutch , as these afterwards told me, and with the natives of the kingdom of Copang , in Timor, over-against them, in which the Dutch fort Concordia stands. But they are said to be inveterate e- nemies to their neighbours of Anabao. Those of A- nabao , besides managing their small plantations of a few cocoa-trees, fish, strike turtle, and hunt buffaloes, killing them with swords, darts, or lances: But I know not how they get their iron ; I suppose by traffick with the Dutch or Portuguese, who send now and then a stoop, and trade thither,, but well-armed ; for the natives would kill. them, could they surprise them. They go always armed themselves; and, when they go a- sistring or h mting, they spend four or five days, or more, in ranging about, before: they return to their habitation. We often saw them after this at these employments, but they would not come near us. The fish or flesh that they take, besides what serves for present spending, they dry on a barbacue, or wooden grate, standing pretty high over the sire, and so carry
IOl to AUSTRALASIA. it home when they return ; we came some time after-1699° yyards to the places where they had meat thus a-drying, but did not touch any of it. But, to proceed : 1 did not think to stop any-where till 1 came to the fort, which yet I did not fee ; but, coming to the end of this passage, I found, that, if I went any farther, I should be again open to the sea: I therefore stood in to the shore on the east side, and anchored in four fathoms water, sandy ground, a point of land still hindering me from seeing the fort. But I sent my boat to look out for it -, and, in a Ihort time, she returned ; and my men told me, they saw the fort, but did not come near it; and that it was not above four or five miles from hence. It being now late, I would not send my boat thither till the next morning ; meanwhile, about two or three hundred Indians, neighbours of the fort, and sent probably from thence, came to the sandy bay, just against the ship, where they staid all night, and made good tires. They were armed with lances, swords, and targets, and made much noise all the night. We thought it was to scare US from landing, should we attempt it but we took little notice of them. The next morning, being September 23d, I sent my clerk ashore, in my pinnace, to the governour, to satisfy him that we were Englijb - tneriy and in the King's ship, and to ask water of him, sending a young man with him, who spake French. My clerk was with the governour pretty early and, in answer to his queries about me, and my business in these parts, told him that 1 had the King of England ''s commission, and desired to speak with him : He beckoned to my clerk to cossie ashore; but, as soon as he saw some small-arms in the stern-sheets or' the boat, he commanded him into the boat again, and would have him be gone : My clerk solicited him, that he would allow him to speak with him; and, at last, the governour consented, chat he should come ashore ; and sent his lieutenant, and three merchants, with a guard of about an hundred of the native Indians, to receive , , , . him;
102 WILLIAM DAM PIER, S&99. him : My clerk said, that that we were in much want V '' rv/ of water, and hoped they would allow us to come to their watering-place, and fill. But the governour replied, that he had orders not to supply any sliips but their own Eafl-lndia company, neither must they allow any Europeans to come the way that we came, and wondered how we durst approach their fort. My clerk answered him, that, had we been enemies, we must have come asliore among them for water. But, said the governour, you are come to inspect into our trade and strength, and 1 will have you therefore be gone with all speed. My clerk answered him, that I had no such design; but, without coming nearer them, would be contented, if the governour would send water on board, where we lay, about two leagues from the fort; and that I would make any reasonable satisfaction for it. The governour said, that we should have what water we wanted, provided we came no nearer with the ship -, and ordered, that, as soon as we pleased, we should send our boat full of empty casks, and come to an anchor with it off the fort, till he sent slaves to bring the casks ashore, and fill them ; for that none of our men must come ashore : The same afternoon I sent up my boat, as he had directed, with an officer, and a present of some beer for the governour, which he would not accept, but sent me off about a. ton of water. After this, I sent my boat ashore several times, with the fame officer on board, to transact matters with the governour. But, as this officer had no great mind to the voyage, and desired nothing so much as to see us obliged to return home, he made such strange reports of the governour, that the rest of the officers, and the ship's crew, grew uneasy ; so that though we were kindly entertained by the inhabitants of the other island, who brought us every day fish and fruits to fell, yet it was resolved, in a council held upon this subject, that we should leave the neighbourhood of the Dutch sort, and qndeavour, if it was possible, to find
to AUSTRALASIA. ivz the Portuguese settlements, where we went in hopes of 1699. being better treated. On the 27th in the morning, we anchored in the middle of Copang bay but, being able to discover nothing worth mentioning there, we sailed from thence still northward, in search of the Portuguese settlements. On the 29th, we continued coasting, without finding any proper place to land. The next day I sent my mate ashore, who discovered a very good watering-place in a bay where there was safe anchorage ; which was a very acceptable service ; and I went the next morning on shore, in order to give the necessary directions. In the space of three days, We filled about twenty-lix tons of water, and then had on board about thirty tons in all. The two following days we spent in fishing with the seine, and the first morning caught as many as served all my ship's company: But we had not afterwards so good success. The rest of my men, who could be spared from the ship, 1 sent out, with the carpenter's mate, to cut timber for my boats. These went always attended by three or four armed men, to secure them. I shewed them what wood was fitting to cut for our use, especially the calabash and maho: 1 shewed them also the manner of stripping the maho-bark, and of making therewith thread, twine, ropes, &c. Others were sent out a-fowling, who brought home pigeons, parrots, cockatoos, &c. I was always with one pany or other myself, especially with the carpenters, to hasten them to get what they could, that we might be gone from hence. On the 6th of October I failed from this place and, on the 1 2th, arrived safely at the first Portuguese settlement, and was very well received there, the people seeming very willing to do me any service in their power. And, afterwards, I stood round again nearer to the Dutch fort of Concordia ; from whence the governour lent me a message, by which all former mistakes were cleared up, and a good understanding restored j so that, at the request of that gentleman, I went shore, and dined with him at his fort; where I found
io4- WILLIAM DAMPIER 1699. found great plenty of very good victuals, very well '-^-'dressed, the linen white and clean, and all the plates and dishes either silver, or very fine China. This, indeed, must be said in favour of the Dutch , that in all their settlements, every thing is managed with the utmost decency and order. After dinner he showed me some drawers full of shells, of which he had a very curious and well-chosen collection. He seemed to be highly frank and open; told me, that, as to naval stores, it was not in his power to supply me; but that, for fresh provisions, or whatever else he could spare, I might be sure of them : For which I thanked him, but made no use of this osier; becuase my ship lay at a good distance from the fort, and I was afraid of trusting my men so far in the country, for fear the natives should attack them. We met with great plenty of grain; so that, during all the time we staid here, very little of our salt provisions were consumed. We saw almost every day exceeding black clouds, and heard it. thunder for near a month in the mountains, where we likewise saw it rain, but none came near us till about four days before our departure: Previous to my account of which, I shall give an exact description of the country. The isiand of Timor is about seventy leagues long, and sixteen broad; It lies nearly south-east and southwest, The middle of it lies in about 9 degrees south latitude. It has no navigable river, nor any harbours; but abundance of bays for ships to ride in lately enough at some seasons of the year. The shore is very bold, free from rocks, islands, or sholes, excepting a few, which are visible, and therefore easily avoided. It is a pretty even shore, with sandy bays, and low land, for about three or four miles up into the country; but, beyond that space, it is mountainous. There is no anchoring but within half a league, or a league at farthest, from the shore; and the low land, that bounds the sea, hath nothing but red mangroves, from the foot of the mountains, till you come within 150 or 200
to AUSTRALASIA. los, 200 paces of the sea-, and then you have sand-banks, *690. covered with a sort of pine, so that there is no getting water on this tide because I have mangroves. At the south-west end of Timor is a pretty high island, called Anabao. It is about ten cr twelve leagues long, and about four broad ; near which the Dutch are settled. It lies so near Timor , that it is laid down in our draughts as part of that island -, yet we found a narrow deep channel, fit for any ships to pass between them. This channel is about ten leagues long, and, in some places, not above a league wide. It runs north-east and south-west, so deep, that there is no anchoring but very near the store. There is but litJe tide, the flood setting north, and the ebb to the.southward. At the north-east end of this channel are two points of land, not above half a league asunder, one on the south side upon Timor , called Copang -, the other on the north side, upon the other island Anabao. From this last point the land trends away northerly two or three leagues ; opens to the sea, and then bends in again to the westward. Being past these point 5 , you enter into a bay about eight leagues long, and four wide. This bay turns in, on the south side, north-east by- east from the south point before-mentioned, making many small points, or litt'e coves. About a league £0 the east of the said south point, the Dutch have a small stone fort, situated on a solid rock, close by the sea. This fort they call Concordia. On the east side of the fort, there is a small river of frest water, which has a broad boarded bridge over it, near the entry into the tort. Beyond this river is a small sandy bay, where the boats and barks land. About an hundred yards from the iea-side, and as many from the fort, and forty yards from the bridge on the east side, the company, as at most of their forts, have a fine garden, surrounded with a good stone-wall. in it is plenty of ail forts of iailads, cabbages, roots for the kitchen, and a parterre. In some parts of it are fruit trees, as jacar, pumplenofe, oranges, sweet lemon y &c. and, by the Vol. III. O walls,
io 6 WILLIAM DAMPIER 1699. walis, are cocoa-nut and toddy-trees in great plenty. Besides these, they have musk and water-melons, pineapples, pomecitrons, pomegranates, and other forts of fruits. Between this garden and the river there is a kind of paddock for black cattle, of which they have plenty. Beyond the company's ground, the natives have their houses, in number about fifty or sixty. There are forty or fifty soldiers belonging to this fort: But I know not how many guns they have ; for I had only opportunity to fee one bastion, in which they had four guns. Within the walls, there is a neat little church or chapel. As to the natives of this island, or original Indian inhabitants, they are of a' middle stature, strait-bodied, flender-limbed, long-visaged, their hair black and lank, and their skin very swarthy. They are very dextrous and nimble, but withal lazy in the highest degree. They are said to be dull in every thing but treachery and barbarity. Their houses are but mean, their clothing only a small cloth about their middle ; but some of them, for ornament, have fronts lets of mot'Her-of-pearl, or thin pieces of silver or gold j made of an oval form, of the breadth of a crown-piece,' curiously notched tost nd the edges, five of these, placed one by another a little above she eye-brows, making a sufficient guard and ornament for their forehead. ' They are To thin, and placed on their foreheads so artificially, that they seem rivetted thereon ; and indeed the pearl oyster-ihells make a more splen did firow than either silver or gold. Others of them have palmetto-caps, made in divers forms. As to their marriages, they take as many wives as they can maintain and sometimes they fell their children to purchase more wives. I inquired about their religion, and was told they had none. Their common subsistence is Indian corn, which every man plants'for himself.' They take but little pains'to clear the ground i for, in the dry time, they set fire to the withered grafs and shrubs, 'and that burns them out a clear plantation against the r.oit wet season. What ether grain they have, besides ■ Indian
to AUSTRALASIA. 107 Indian corn, I know riot. Their plantations are very 1699. mean -, for they delight most in hunting: And here are wild buffaloes and hogs enough, though very shy, because of their frequent hunting. They have a few boats, and some fishermen. Their arms are lances, thick, round, short truncheons, and targets. With these they hunt, and kill their game; and the same weapons they use against their enemies too : For this island is now divided into many kingdoms, and all of different languages, though, in their customs and manner of living, as well as shape and colour, they seem to be originally of one descent. The chiefest kingdoms are, Cupang , Amabie , Lortribie, Pobumbic, j NamquimaJ : The island also of Anamabao, or Anabao, is ! a kingdom. Each of these has a Sultan, who is fu- : preme in his kingdom, and hath under him several ; Rajas, and other inferiour officers, she Sultans, for the most part, are enemies to each other; which enmities are fomented and kept up by the Dutch , whose ■; fort and factory are situated in the kingdom of Cupang$ j and therefore the bay, near which they are settled, is 1 commonly called Cupang Bay. They have only as much. ground as they can keep within reach of their guns " yet this whole kingdom is at peace with them, and they freely trade with its inhabitants, as also with the islanders on Anabao , who are at peace, as well with the natives of Cupang , as with the Dutch residing there. But they are implacable enemies to those of Amabie , who are their next neighbours, and in amity with the " Portuguese ; as are also the kingdoms of Pobumbie , Nan- quimal , and Lortribie. It is very probable, that these two European settlements on this island are the greatest occasion of their continual wars. The Portuguese boast excessively of their strength here, and that they are able, at pleasure, to rout out the Dutch , if they had authority so to do from the King of Portugal ; and that they often write to the Viceroy of Goa about it ; and, though their request is not yet granted, nevertheless O 2 (as
io8 WILLIAM DAMP1ER, 1699. (as they fay) they live in expectation of it. These v *" w have no forts ; but depend on their alliance with the natives: And indeed they are already so mixed, that it is hard to distinguish whether they are Portuguese or Indians. Their language is Portuguese and the religion they have is Ramijlt. They seem, in words, to acknowledge the King of Portugal for their sovereign yet they will not accept of any officers sent by him. They speak indifferently the Malayan and their own country-languages, as well as Portuguese ; and the chiefest officers that I saw were of this mixed descent: Neither did I see above three or four white men among them ; and of these two were priests. Of this mixed breed there are some thousands, of whom some have small-arms of their own, and know how to use them. The chief person (as I before said) is called Captain- major. He is a white man, sent thither by the Viceroy of Goa, and seems to have great authority here. 1 did not fee him ; for he seldom comes down. His residence is at a place called Porto Nova , which, the people at Laphao told me was a great way off; but I could not get any particular account about it. Some told me, that he is commonly in the mountains, with an army of Indians, to guard the passes between them and the Cupangayans , especially in the dry seasons. The next man to him was Alexis Mendoza. He is an Indian, speaks very good Portuguese , and is of the Romish religion. He lives sive or six miles from the sea, and is called the Lieutenant. He commands next to the captain-major, and hath under him another at this Fort (on the sea-lide), if it must be so called ; for, at best, it is but a block-house. What 1 observed of greatest consequence during my stay in this island, was the different state, and still more different policy, of the European nations fettled here ; 1 mean the Dutch and Portuguese: And, I believe, the account I am about to give of them may pass for a pretty good description of all their settlements ; by which I mean, that, as their genius is a- like,
to AUSTRALASIA. 109 like, so its consequences are pretty near the same in 1699. all. The Dutch fort, as I have observed, is a regular just fortification, well provided with artillery and ammunition, and has a sufficient number of soldiers to secure them against any attempts of the natives. They depend therefore entirely upon themselves, and, by always suspecting, are never deceived. They carry on a very considerable trade, because they furnish the natives with a greater variety, and better forts of goods, than their rivals in commerce the Portuguese. As for the latter, they have a block-house or two, but hardly any guns ; and are wretchedly provided with ammunition. This is owing to the looseness of their government, or, to speak with greater propriety, to their having no government at all; for, though they boast much of being Portuguese , yet they pay no obedience to the Viceroy at Goa, who consequently troubles not himself about them, but leaves them to provide military and naval stores at the worst hand, that is, to purchase them from the Chinese. As they are, in a manner, Indians themselves, they trust to their own strength, and that of the natives; and, because they can muster ten times as many men as the Dutch , they fancy themselves much stronger. These crafty neighbours of theirs never bring this to trial; but have spirited up the people of Cupang against them to such a degree, that they are continually at war with the Portuguese, and never give them any quarter. This is the reason that their captain-major remains always in the mountains, where, if he did not guard the passes carefully, the Portuguese , notwithstanding their boasted strength, would soon be driven from the coast. Not far from the Dutch fort at Concordia , the people of Cupang have an house, or rather hovel, built on purpose to hold Portuguese heads ; for, whenever they kill any of their enemies, hither they bring his head ; and when I was there, it was said to be almost full: So that, while the Portuguese are threatening to drive the Dutch out of the island, the Dutch , without lb much as uttering their
iio WILLIAM DAMPIER, *699. their resentments, are taking off their heads as fast as W ' J they can. Besides the people already described, there are also here some Chinese merchants from Maceao. They bring hither coarse rice, coarse or mixed gold, tea, iron-work, porcelane, and silk both wrought and raw. They got in exchange pure gold, as it is here gathered, bees-wax, sandal-wood, and coire. It is said there are about twenty small Chinese vessels come hither every year from Maccao , and commonly one vessel a year from Goa, which brings Eurosean commodities, calicoes, and muslins. Here are likewise some small barks, that trade from this place to Bata-eia , and bring from thence both European and Indian goods, and rice. The vessels generally come-hither in March, and stay till September ; and, by this means, secure the benefit of the trade-winds, and obtain regular and advantageous markets for their commodities. This country, take it all together, is very rich and plentiful. Fruit-trees they have of all kinds in great plenty, and abundance of timber. In their plantations they have Indian corn, and rice-, and might have ten times as much, if they were not so lazy-, wild and tame beasts innumerable, and fowls in vast quantities ; besides, that there are woods swarming with bees, which make vast quantities of honey and wax, their mountains and brooks afford a great deal of gold; and they have likewise much copper-, but I do not know where they get it. The sea is very well stocked with fish, among which the most remarkable are cocklemerchants, or oystercrackers. The feed on shell-fish, having two very hard, thick, black bones in their throat, with which they break to pieces such shell-fish as they feed upon. As for shell-fish, they have oysters of three sorts; viz long oysters, common oysters, which are very fat, and a third sort, the shells of which resemble a stone so much, as not to be easily distinguished from it: Yet these are the best ; for they are very sweet, fat, and well tasted, being likewise of such size, that three or four of them will serve for a dinner. There are
II? to AUSTRALASIA, 6 c. are cockles here as big as a man's head, of which two 1700. or three are enough for a meal; they are very fat and sweet; crayfish, shrimps, £dV. Here are also many green turtles, some alligators, isc. We failed from Timor on December 12th, 1699, and saw, during the remainder of that month, several small islands. On Newyears-day, we first discovered the coast of Neto- Guinea , which appeared to be very high land ; and, soon after, we discovered islands almost on every side. On January 14th, 1700, we saw, in the afternoon, some smoke from the islands lying to the west of us ; therefore 1 bore away towards them, with all the advantage that a brisk gale could give me. About seven in the evening, we anchored in thirty-five fathoms water, at the distance of about two leagues from a pretty large island. We remained where we were that night, and saw many fires on shore. In the morning we weighed again, and ran farther in., thinking to have shallower water; but we ran within a mile of the shore, and came to rhirty-eight fathoms, good, soft, holding ground. While we were under sail, two canoes came off within call of us. They spoke to us; but we neither understood their language nor signs. We waved to them to come on board, and called to them in the Malayan language to do the fame ; but they would not: Yet they came so nigh us, that we could strew them such things as we had to truck with them, though neither would this intice them to come aboard ; but they made signs for us to come ashore, and away they went. Then 1 went after them in my pinnace, carrying with me knives, beads, glasses, hatchets, &c. When we came near the snore, 1 called to them in the Malayan language. I saw but two men at first, the rest lying in ambush behind the bushes; but, as soon as I threw ashore some knives and other toys, they came out, flung down their weapons, and came into the water by the boat's side, making signs of friendship, by pouring .water on their heads with one hand, which they dipped into the sea. The next day, . in
I 12 WILLIAM DAMPIER, 1700. in the afternoon, several other canoes came on board, and brought many roots and fruits, which we purchased. This island has no name in our draughts; but the natives call it Pulo Sabuda. It is about three leagues long, and two miles wide, more or less. It is of a good height, so as to be seen eleven or twelve leagues. It is very rocky ; yet, above the rocks, there is good yellow and black mould, not deep, though producing plenty of good tall trees, and bearing any fruits or roots, which the inhabitants plant. I do not know all its produce; but what we saw were plantains, cocoa-nuts, pine-apples, oranges, papoes, potatoes, and other large roots. Here is also another sort of ■vyild jackas, about the bigness of a man's two fists, full of stones or kernels, which eat pleasant enough when roasted. The libby-trees grows here in the swampy valfies, of which they make fago-cakes. I did not fee them make any but was told by the inhabitants, that it was made of the pith of the tree, in the fame manner I have before described. They shewed me the tree whereof it was, and I bought about forty of the cakes. I bought also three or four nutmegs in the shell, which did not seem to have been long gathered ; but, whether they be the growth of this island or not, I cannot lay ; for the natives would not tell whence they had them, and seemed to value them very much. What beasts this island affords, I know not; but here are both sea and land fowls : Of the first, boobies and men of-war-birds are the chief; some golden and milk-white crab-catchers. The land-fow!s are, pigeons, about the bigness of mountain-pigeons in Jamaica , and grow about the size of those in England, and much like them ; but the inner part of their feathers is white, and the out-fide black; so that they appear ail black, unless you extend the feathers. Here are large lky-coloured birds, such as we killed at New- Guinea , and many other small birds unknown to us. Here are likewise abundance of bats, as big as young conies, their necks, heads, ears, and noses like foxes ; their
tq AUSTRALASIA. their hair rough; that about their necks is of a whitish yellow ; that on their heads and shoulders black. Their wings are four feet over from tip to tip. They smell like foxes. The fish are bass, rock-fish, and a fort of fish like mullets, old-wives, whiprays, and some other sorts that I know not; but no great plenty of any; For it is deep water till within less than a mile of the sit ore; then there is a bank of coral rocks, within which you have shoal water, white clean sand ; so there is no good fishing amongst these. This island lies in 2 degrees, 43 minutes south latitude, and its meridian distance from Port Bahac , on the Island of Timor , is 486 miles. Besides this island, here are nine other small islands, as they are laid down in the draughts. The inhabitants of this island are A fort of very tawny In- dians , with long black hair, who, in their manners, differ but little from the Minda nay aris , and others of these eastern islands. These seem to be the chief; for, besides them, We saw also curlpated New Guinea Negroes, many of which are slaves to the others, but, I think, not all: They are very poor, wear no cloaths, but have a clout about their middle, made of the rinds of the tops of palmeto-trees but the women have a sort of calico-cloths. Their chief ornaments are blue and yellow beads worn about their wrists. The men arm themselves with bows, arrows, lances, and broad swords, like those of Mindanao, Their lances are pointed with bone. They strike fisli very ingeniously with wooden sisti-giggs, and have a very dexterous way of making the fish rise; for they have a piece of wood curiously carved and painted, much like a dolphin (and perhaps other figures); these they let down into the water by a line, and a small weight to sink it : When they think it low enough, they haul the line into their boats very fast; and the fish rising up after this figure, they stand ready to strike them when they are near the surface of the water. But their chief livelihood is from their plantations; yet they have large boat's, and go ever to New-Guinea, where they Vol. III. P get Il 3 1700.
114 WILLIAM DAMPIER, 1700. get slaves, fine parrots, &c. which they carry to Ce* ram , anc j exchange for calicoes. One boat came from thence a little before I arrived here, of whom I bought 1ome parrots, and would have bought a slave; but they would not barter for any thing, except calicoes* which I did not chuse. Their houses on this side were very small, and seemed only to be for necessity ; but, on the other side of the island, we saw good large houses. Their prows are narrow, with outliers on each side, like other Malayans. 1 cannot tell of what religion these are ; but I think they are not Mahometans , by drinking brandy out of the fame cup with us, without any scruple. At this island we continued till the 20th instant, having laid in store of such roots and fruits as the island afforded. On the 20th, at half an hour after six in the morning, I weighed ; and, standing out, we law a large boat full of men, lying on the north point of the island. As we passed by, they rowed towards their habitations, where we supposed they had withdrawn themselves, for fear of us, (though we gave them no cause of terror), or for some differences among themselves; which of the two, was out of our power to determine, though the former, however unreasonable, seemed to us the most probable ; and their future conduct confirmed us in that opinion. After we left this coast, where we found it impossible to do any thing, in regard either to diicoveries or trade, we passed by many small islands, and through many dangerous shoals, without meeting with any thing remarkable ; till, on February 4th, we found ourselves off the north-west cape of Netv-Guinea, which is called by the Dutch Cape Mala. There lies off this cape a small woody island, which I sent my boat to examine, intending to have anchored near it; and as they brought me, at their return, a cockle of a prodigious size, and reported that they had seen manv more that were still bigger, I thought sit to call this Cockle Island. The next day, in the afternoon, I sent both boats thither, one to cut wood, and the other to fish;
to AUSTRALASIA. fish ; which boats, at their return, brought me several 17°°* cockles of ten pounds weight ; but as it was high- water, they were not able to get any of the very large ones; for, the shells they • brought the day before weighed 78 pounds. In the afterndon, I went myself ashore on the other island, where I found more pigeons than i had ever observed before, tho' all these islands abound with that fort of fowl. Here also were such plenty of cockles, that in an hour's time, we could have loaded the boat with them. This place I called Pigeon Island; and, on the 7th, in the afternoon, my men brought me from thence one empty cockle-lhell, weighing 258 pounds. The fame evening, we anchored near a very pleasant island, about two leagues and an half in length ; the country high, and exceeding well cloathed with wood : the trees of them were of several forts, most of them unknown to us, but all of them green and flourishing: Many of them bore flowers of different colours, some white, some purple, some yellow, all exceedingly fragrant, so as to be smelt at a considerable distance. These trees were, generally speaking, tall and straight, and one in particular of a clean, smooth body, without knot or limb, between sixty and seventy feet high, and three fathoms about. The foil of the island is black, but not deep. On this island I went ashore the next morning, drank his Majesty's health, and called it King William's Island. On the 9th, being to the eastward o t King William's Island , we plied al! the day between the Main and several cither islands, having the wind easterly, and fair weather ; but it soon altered, and we had a great deal of rain. On the 14th, we found ourselves about 6 leagues from the continent of New-Guinea , which appeared very high; and we saw two head lands, at about twenty leagues distant from each other, the one east, the other west; the last is called the Cape of Good Hose : The variation of the compass here was four degrees to the east. On the 15th, we saw an uninhabited island, to which I gave thp name of Providence, I* 2 sthiei
n6 WILLIAM D AMP I ER, I 7oo. which lies at no great distance from another small island, mentioned in the Butch charts by the name of William Scbouten's Island. We crossed the Line on the 16th, and found the variation 6 degrees, 26 minutes to the east; but, in a few days, the variation increased to very near 9 degrees. We saw, on the 23d, in the afternoon, two snakes; and, the next morning, another passing by us, which was vigorously attacked by two fishes, that had kept us company five or fix days>: They were shaped like mackrel, and were about their bigness and length, and of a yellow colour, inclined to green. The snake swam away from them very fast, keeping his head above the water : One fish snapt at his tail; but, when he turned himself, the fish would withdraw, and the other would snap; so that, by turns, they kept him employed; yet he still defended himself, and swam a- way at a great pace, till they were all out of sight. The 25th, betimes in the morning, we saw an island to the southward of us, at about fifteen leagues distance : We bore away for it, supposing it to be that which the Dutch called Wijhart's Ijland-, but, finding it another place, I called it Matthias , it being that saint's day. This island is about nine or ten leagues long, mountainous and woody, with many lavannas, and some spots of land, which seemed to be cleared. At eight in the evening we lay by, intending, if we could, to anchor under Matthias Isle: But, the next morning, seeing another island, about seven or eight leagues to the eastward of it, we steered away for it: At noon, we came up fair with its south-west end, intending to run along by it, and anchor on the south-east fide; but the tornadoes came in so thick, that 1 could not venture in. This island is pretty low and plain, and cloathed with wood. The trees were very green, and appeared to be large and tall, as thick as they could stand one by another. It is about two or three leagues long; and, at the south-west point, there is another low, small, woody island, about a mile round, and a- ' bout
to AUSTRALASIA. > i -i 7 bout a mile from the other. Between them runs s ridge ryoo. of rocks, which joins them ; the biggest of these I cal- W ' J led Squally Island, on account of the tempestuous weather we met with upon its coasts. The desire of making discoveries obliges a man to lay hold of every circumstance that is in the least promising, and to neglect nothing that may gain him a tolerable acquaintance with the coasts he visits. Subsequent voyagers may easily discover great seeming err ours in such a man's conduct; but impartial judges will be always ready to allow, that it is one thing to attempt, and another to prosecute discoveries. He who engages in the former, actually steers in the dark, and moves without guide or information ; whereas the latter follows the lights which the other had struck out, and not only improves the effects of his sagacity, but acquires wisdom also by attending to his mistakes. Yet the pleasure of the discoverer is certainly more quick and lively, than that of any critical inquirer into the conduct of his voyage. In this expedition, however, the discoveries were not great enough to excite envy; and yet, possibly, they may deserve attention and prosecution; since, though the countries were not rich which we saw, yet they were pleasant, and appeared extremely capable of improvement. It is also to be observed, that we visited the out-skirts only of the country -, and, by the fringes of a carpet, it is very hard to judge of the whole piece. In order to conquer this difficulty, and, at the fame time, to rid ourselves osi the dangers and distresses we continually experienced in steering among these islands, we resolved to bear away for the Continent, in hopes of indemnifying ourselves for the sufferings and disappointments we had hitherto met with on the coast of Nezv- Guinea. The continent appeared high and mountainous, a- dorned with flourishing trees. The sides of the hills had many large plantations, and pieces of cleared land, which, together with the smoke we saw, are certain signs
* 18 WILLIAM DAMPIER, 1700. signs of its being well inhabited; and I was desirous of entering into commerce with the inhabitants: Be- ing nigh the shore, we saw first: one prow; a little after two or three more; and, at last, a great many boats came from all the adjacent bays : When they were forty-six in number, they approached so near us, that we could fee each others figns, and hear each other speak, though we could not understand them, nor they us. They made signs for us to go in towards the shore, pointing that way: It was squally weather, which at first made me cautious of going too near; but the weather beginning to look pretty clear, 1 endeavoured to get into a bay a-head of us, which we could have got into well enough at first; but, while we lay by, we were driven so far to leeward, that now it was more difficult to get in. The natives lay in their prows round us, to whom I shewed beads, knives, and glasses, to allure them to come nearer; but they would not come so nigh as to receive any thing from us: Therefore I threw out some things to them, viz. a knife fastened co a piece of board, and a glass-bottle corked up with some beads in it, which they took up, and seemed well pleased. They often struck their left breast with their right hand, and as often held up a black truncheon over their heads, which we took for a token of friendffiip ; wherefore we did the like; and, when we stood in towards the shore, they seemed to rejoice ; but, when we stood off, they frowned ; yet kept us company in their prows, still pointing to the ihore. About five o'clock, we got within the mouth of the bay, and sounded several times, but had no ground, though within a mile of the stiore. The bason of this bay was above two miles, into which we might have gone ; but, as I was not sure of anchorage there, I thought it not prudent to run in at this time, it being near night, and seeing a black tornado rising in the west, which I most feared ; besides, we had near 200 men in prows close by us, and the bays, on the shore, were lined with men from one end to the other, where there
1-0 AUSTRALASIA, &V.- ±19 there could not be less than three or four hundred 1700. more. What weapons they had we knew not, nor v ^ r ° yet their delign ; therefore I had, at their first coming near us, got up all our Ismail arms, and made several put on cartouch-boxes to secure us from treachery. At last I resolved to go out again ; which when the natives in their prows perceived, they began to sting stones at us as fast as they could, being provided with engines for that purpose; and, therefore, I named this place Stinger's Bay: But, 1 at the firing of a single gun, they were all amazed, drew off, and flung no more stones •, they got together, as if consulting what to do ; for they did not make in towards the shore, but lay still, though some of them were killed or wounded, and many more of them had paid for their boldness, but that I was unwilling to cut off many of them ; which if I had done, I could not hope afterwards to bring them to treat with me. The next day, we sailed close by an island, where we saw much smoke, and men in the bays, out of which came two or three canoes, taking much pains to overtake us, but they could not, though we went with an easy sail, and I could not now stay for them. As 1 passed by the south-east point, I sounded several times, within a mile of the sandy bays, but had no ground. About , three leagues to the northward of the south-east point, we opened a large deep bay, secured from west-north- west and south-west winds: There were two other islands that lay to the north-east of it, which secured the bay from north-east winds -, one was but small, yet woody; the other was a league long, inhabited, and full of cocoa-nut-trees. I endeavoured to get into this bay, but there came such flaws from the high land over it, that I could not; and, night coming on, I would not run any hazard, but bore away to the small inhabited island, to see if we could anchor on the east side of it: When we came thither, we found the island so narrow, that there could be no shelter; therefore I tacked, and stood towards the greater island again; and,
DAMPIERi WILLIAM 1706, and, being more than midway between both, t lay W " J by. Between seven and eight at night, we saw a canoe close by us; and, seeing no more, suffered her to come aboard; she had three men in her, who brought off five cocoa-nuts, for which I gave each of them a knife, and a string of beads, to encourage them to come off again in the morning ; but, before these went away, we saw two more canoes coming; therefore we stood away to the northward from them, and then lay by a- gain till day. .We saw no more boats this night, neither designed to suffer any more to come aboard in the dark. By nine o' clock the next morning, we were got within a league of the great istand, but were kept off by violent gusts of wind. On March 3 d, being about five leagues to leeward of the great istand, we saw the main land a head, and another great high island to leeward of us, distance about seven leagues, for which we bore away; it is called in. the Dutch draughts Garrdt Dennis isle. It is about fourteen or fifteen leagues round, high and mountainous, and very woody. Some trees appeared very large and tall; and the bay, by the fea-side, abounded with very large cocoa-nut trees ; where we also saw some small houses. The fides of the mountains are thick-fet with plantations ; and the mould, in the new-cleared land, seemed to be of a brown reddish colour. This island is full of points, shooting into the sea: between which are many sandy bays full of cocoa- nut trees. The middle of the island lies in 3 degrees, 10 minutes south latitude; it is very populous; the natives are very black, strong, and well-limbed people, having round heads, their hair curled and short, which they shave into several forms, and dye it also of divers colours, viz. red, white, and yellow. They have round faces, with broad bottle-noses, yet agreeable e- nough, till they disfigure them by painting, and by wearing great rings through their noses, as big as a man's thumb, and about four inches long; these are run quite through both nostrils, one end running out
to AUSTRALASIA. {21 by one cheek-bone, and the other end against: the ether, 1700. and their noses so stretched, that only a small flip of W '' J them appears about the ornament: They have also great holes in their ears, wherein they wear such stuff as in their noses. They are very dextrous active fellows in their prows, which are very ingeniously built: They are narrow and long, with outlayers on one side ; the head and stern higher than the rest, and adorned with many devices, viz. some fowl, st in, or a man's hand painted or carved-, and though it is but ruddy, yet the resemblance appears plainly, and shows an ingenious fancy : But with what instruments they make their prows, or this kind of carved work, I know not; for they seem to be utterly unacquainted with iron : They had very neat paddles, with which they manage their prows dextrously, and make great way through the wafer. Their weapons are lances, swords, slings, and some bows and arrows : They have also wooden sisogigs for striking fisti. Those that came to assault us in Stingers Bay , on the main, are in all respects like these ; and, I believe, these are no less treacherous: Their speech is clear and distinct -, the words they used most when near us were b'acousee JBcniais ; and then they pointed to the shore : Their signs of friendship are either a great truncheon, or bough of a tree, full of leaves, put on their heads, often striking their heads with their hands. The next day, we had a pleasant gale of wind, which carried us under an high istand, very woody, and full ot plantations on the descents of its mountains, and on tb'e shores ot its bays. This island lies in the latitude of 3 degrees, 25 minutes south, and is distant from the meridian of Cape Mabo 316 miles. On the south-east part of it are three or four more small woody islands, one high and peeked, the other low and flat, all thick- plamed with cocoa-nut-trees, and other wood. On the north, there is another island of an indifferent height, and of a somewhat larger circumference than the great high island last-menrione'd. We passed between this and the high istand; the high istand is called in the- Von. lii. Q__ ' • Butch
122 WILLIAM DAMFIER, 1700. Dutch draughts Anthony Cave's island ; as for the flat W '' J low island, and the other small one, it is probable they; were never seen by the Dutch, nor the islands to the north of Garret Dennis's island. As soon as we came near Cave's island, some canoes carpe about us, and made signs for us to come ashore, as ail the rest had done before, probably thinking we could run the ship a ground any where, as they did their prows; for we saw neither fail nor anchor amongst any of them, though most Eaji-Indians have both: Those had prows made ot one tree, well dug, with outlayers on one side; they were but small, yet well-soaped.' We endeavoured to anchor, but found no ground within a mile of the shore ; we kept close along the north side, still founding till we came to the north-east end, the canoes still accompanying us, and the bays were covered with men going along; as we failed, many of them strove to swim off to us, but we left them a stern. The current now driving in towards the fiat island, we were followed by a canoe from Cave's island : To each of those in it I gave a knife, a looking-giass, and a string of beads. We shewed them pompions and cocoa-nuts, intimating that we should be very west pleased to have more of them, which instantly produced three out of their boat. We next shewed them nutmegs-, and they, by their signs, gave us to understand, that they had such growing on their island. They were likewije strewed gold-dust, which they knew, and cried out, Manneel! Manned I pointing tow-ards the land. Soon after they were gone, two or three canoes-, came from the fiat island, and, invited us thither. These people were black, with frizzled hair, tall, lusty, well-shaped men; they made the same signs of friendship, and seemed to speak the same language. Their canoes were very nearly made, and finely carved, with the figures of various kinds of fish upon them ; and, of ail the Indians we had ever seen, these seemed the most tractable and polite. We soon after sav^another island, called in the Dutch maps St. Johns ; the people of which spoke the same language with those of Cave's island. We saw from ■ ' hence
1-0 AUSTRALASIA. hence an head-land to the south of us, beyond which 1700. we could discover no land at all; whence I suppose, that '-'v-' from thence the land trends away more westerly. This head-land lies in the latitude of 5 degrees, 2 minutes, south, and its meridian distance from Cape Mabo is 1290 miles. In the night we lay by, for fear of overshooting this head land; between which and Cape St. Mary's the land is mountainous and woody, having many points of lahd shooting out into the sea, which make so many fine bays. The coast lies north-northeast and south-south-west. We saw neither smoke nor plantations near this head-land, which we opened fair by night; and, as no Dutch charts described this coast ■so far by ten leagues, I called it Cape St. George. It lies in 5 degrees, 5 minutes, south latitude, and,'as I said, is distant from the meridian of Cape Mabo 1290 miles. I likewise called the bay, formed by this mountain, St. George's Bay, and the island before it St. George's island. The next morning we saw a burning mountain up in the country. The day after, we passed by the south-west cape of this bay, leaving it to the north of us; and, when we came a breast of it, I called up my officers, and named it Cape Orford, in honour of my noble patron Edward Rufsel , Earl of Orford. This cape lies in 5 degrees, 24 minutes, south latitude, and 44 miles west from the meridian of Cape St. George. The land on each side of the cape is more favanna than wood-land ; and it is highest on the north-west side. The cape itself is a bluff-point, of an indifferent height, with a flat table-land at top. When we were to the West of the cape, it appeared to be a low point, shooting out: There were many inhabitants about it. We steered along south-west as the land lies, keeping about six leagues off the shore, and being desirous to cut wood, and fill water, if I saw any conveniency, I lay by in the night, because I would not miss any place proper for those ends, for fear of wanting such necessaries. This coast is high and mountainous, and not so thick set with trees as that on the other side of Cape Or- Q 2 ford,
124 WILLIAM t) A M PIER, 1706. ford, but otherwise pleasant enough. I could have wishf" W-J ed for sotne more favourable opportunities than had hitherto offered themselves, as well for penetrating into the heart of the new-ditcovered country, as for opening a trade with its inhabitants, both of which, I very well knew, could they be brought about, must prove extremely beneficial to Great Britain. For this reason I continued my endeavours, in spite of ib many disappointments-, and, perceiving my officers and men more tractable and obedient than formerly, resolved to examine the continent we had now in view, as minutely as we had lately done the islands : the fruits of which inquiry, such as they were, shall be laid before the reader with the fame truth and sincerity, which, I hope, appear conspicuously in the former part of this relation ; for, though discoveries be not in a man's power, yet a candid relation of his attempts* which is, may afford lights to others, and thereby procure them that success,, of which he failed. Oil March 14, we had sight of a pretty deep- bav, with some islands about it, in which I judged.we might ride pretty securely, and meet also with some refreshments ; for, by the smoke we law, it was very evident that the country was full inhabited: About 10, we fav/ a point, which ran pretty far out into the sea, and a bay'within, where we were in hopes of meeting with fresh water ; and our hopes were greatly increased, when, going with a moderate gale into the bay, we difperned all the marks of a wdl-culcivated country, viz. cocoa-trees, regular plantations, and a considerable number of bouses. When 1 came within four or five' miles of the shore, six small boats came off to view us, with about forty men in them. Perceiving that they would not come aboard, I made signs to them to go ashore ; but they did not, or would not, understand me : Therefore 1 whistled a shot over their heads out of my fowling-piece; and then they pulled away for the shore as hard as they could. These were no sooner ashore, but we saw three boats coming from the island
*9 AUSTRALASIA. iz 5 istand to leeward of us; and they soon came within 1700. • call, for we lay becalmed one had about forty men in her, and was a large well-built boat •, the other two were but small. Not long after I saw another boat coming out of that bay where I intended to go : She likewise was a large boat, with an high head and stern, painted, and full of men. This, I thought, came off to fight us, as probably they all did ■, therefore I fired another small shot over the great boat that was nigh us, which made them take to their paddles. We still lay becalmed ; and therefore they, rowing wide of us, directed their course towards the other great boat that was coming off. When they were pretty near each other, I caused the gunner to fire a gun between, which he did very dextrously ; it was laden with round and partridge-lhot; the last dropt in the water somewhat short of them, but the round shot went between two boats, and grazed about too yards beyond them: This so freightened them, that they both rowed away for the shore as fast as they could, without coming near each other;. and the little boats made the best of their way after them ; and now, having a gentle breeze at south-south-east, we bore into the bay after them. When we came by the point, I saw a great number of men peeping from under the rocks. 1 ordered a shot to be fired to scare them: The shot grazed between us and the point; and, mounting again, flew over the point, and grazed a second time just by them. We were obliged to sail along just by the bays; and, seeing multitudes under the trees, 1 ordered a third gun to be fired among the cocoa-nut-trees to scare them ; for my business being to wood and water, I thought it necessary to strike some cerrour into the inhabitants, who were very numerous, and, I had reason to fear, treacherous. After this I sent my boat to sound ; they had first forty, and at last twenty fathoms water : We followed tire boat, and came to anchor about a quarter of a mile from the shore, in twenty-fix fathoms water, fine black sand and oufe. We rode right against the mouth of
iv.6 1700. WrpJ WILLIAM DAMPIER, of a small river, where I hoped to find fresh water'' Lome of the natives standing upon a small point at thd river's mouth, I sent a small shot over their heads to fright them, which it did effectually. In the afternoon, I sent my boat ashore to the natives, who stood upoti the point by the river's mouth; with a present of cocoa-nuts : When the boat was come near the Ihore, they came running into the \Vater, and put their nuts into the boat: Then I made a signal for the boat to come aboard, and sent both it and the yawl to look for freshwater-, ordering the pinnace to lie near the river's mouth, while the yawl went up to search. In an hour's time, they returned aboard with barrecofes full of fresh water, which they had taken about half a mile up thfc river : After which, I sent them again with casks - ordering one to fill water, and the other to watch the motions of the natives, lest they should make any Opposition ; but they did not, and so the boats returned a little before sunset with a ton and a half of water; and the next day, by noon, brought us six tons of water. I sent ashore commodities to purchase hogs, yams, and other roots. But my men returned without any thing, the natives being unwilling to trade with us; yet they admired our hatchets and axes, but would part with nothing but cocoa-nuts, which they climb the trees for; and, so soon as they gave them our men, they beckoned to them to be gone, for they were afraid of us. The 18th, I sent both boats again for water ; and, before noon, they filled all my casks. In the afternoon I sent them to cut wood; but, seeing about forty natives standing on the bay, at a small distance from our men, I made a fignal for them to come aboard again; which they did, and brought me word, that the men were pasting that way, but were afraid to come nigh them. At four o'clock I sent both the boats again for wood, and they returned in the evening. Then I called my officers, to consult whether it were convenient to stay here longer, and endeavour a better acquaintance: with these people: They all gave their opinions for staying 1
to AUSTRALASIA. {laying longer here. So the next day I sent both boats 1700. ashore to fish, and to cut more wooch While they were ashore, about thirty or forty men and women passed by; they were a little afraid of our people at first, but, up-^ on their making signs of friendship, passed quietly. ; the men were dressed very sine with feathers about their, heads, and lances in their hands ; the women had no ornament, or any thing to cover their nakedness, but a bunch of green boughs before and behind, stuck under a string, which came round their waists. They canned large baskets on their heads full of yams: And I have observed, among all the wild nations 1 have known, that they make the women carry the burdens, while the men walk before, without carrying any other load than their arm?. In the afternoon I sent the boats ashore for wood. Some of oyr men going to the natives houses,' found they were now. more shy than they used to be, had taken down all the cocoa-nuts from the trees, and driven away their hogs: Our people made signs to them, to know what was become of their hogs, and other things. The natives, pointing to some houses at the bottom of the bay, and imitating the noise of those creatures, signified there were hogs and goats of several sizes, which they expressed by holding out their hands at several distances from the ground. At night our boats came aboard with wood ; and next morning I went myself, with both boats, up the river, to the watering-place, carrying with me such trifles as 1 thought molt proper to induce them to a commerce with us : But 1 found they were very shy. I saw but two men and a boy: One of the men, by some signs, was persuaded to come to the boat's side where 1 was: I gave him a knife, a string of beads, and a glafs- bottle; the fellow called out Cocoas! Cocoas! pointing to a village hard by ; and signified, that he would go for some ; but he never returned. 1 took eight or nine men with pie, and marched to their houses, which I found very mean, and their doors made fast with withes, the inhabitants being all withdrawn out of fear. I visited three of their villages, and, finding their houses abandoned
128 WILLIAM D AM PIER, 1700. ed by the inhabitants, I brought out some small fishing- nets, in recompence for those things they had of us. As we were coming away, we saw two of the natives ; I shewed them the things that we carried with us ; and called to them, Cocoas, Cocoas, to let them know, that I took those things, because they had not made good what they had promised by their signs, and by their calling out Cocoas. While I was thus employed, the men in the yawl filled two hogsheads with water, and all the barrecoes. In the afternoon I came aboard, and found all my officers and men very importunate to go to that bay where the hogs were said to be. I was loth to yield to it, fearing they would deal too roughly with the natives. At last 1 consented, sending those commodities I had ashore with me in the morning, and giving them a strict charge to act cautiously for their own security. The bay I'sent them to was about two miles from the ffiip. A? soon as they were gone, I got all things ready, that, if there was occasion, I might assist them with my great guns. When they came to land, the natives appeared, shaking their lances, and threatening them ; and some were so daring as to wade into the sea, holding a target in one hand, and a lance in the other. Our men held up such commodities as I had sent, but to no purpose; for the natives waved them off. Seeing therefore they could not be prevailed upon, my men, being resolved to have some provision among them, sired some musquets to scare them away ; which had the desired effect upon all but two or three, who stood still in a menacing posture, till the boldest of them dropt his target, and ran away, being shot in the arm. He, and some others, felt the smart of our bullets, but none were killed, our design being rather to fright than hurt them. Our men landed, and found abundance of tame hogs running amongst the houses. They shot nine, which they brought away. They had but little time ; for, in less than an hour after they went from the Chip, it began to rain : Therefore they got what they could into the boats ; for I had charged them to come away, if it rained. By that time, the
*o AUSTRALASIA. 129 the boat was aboard, and the hogs taken in, it cleared 1700. up, and my men desired to make another trip thither WvJ before nig;ht: This was about five in the evening, and I consented, giving them orders to repair on board before night. In the close of the evening they returned with eight hogs more, and a little live pig; and, by this time, the other hogs were jerked and salted. These that came last, we only dressed and corned till morning, ■and then sent both boats ashore for more refreshments, either of hogs or roots ; but, in the night, the natives had conveyed away their provisions of all forts. Many of them were now about the houses, and none offered to hinder our boats landing but, on the contrary, were so amicable, that one man brought ten or twelve cocoa-nuts, left them on the shore, after he had shewed them to our men, and Went out of sight. Our people, finding nothing but nets and images, brought them away; these two of my men brought in a small canoe and, presently after, my boats came off. I ordered the boatswain to take care of the nets; the images I took into my own custody. I sent the canoe in the afternoon to the place from whence they brought her, and in her two axes, two hatchets, (one of the helved) six knives, six looking- glasses, a large bunch of beads, and four glass-bottles. Our men drew the canoe ashore, placed the things to the best advantage in her, and came off in the pinnace I sent to guard them : And, now, being well-stocked with wood, and all my water-easks full, I resolved to ' sail the next morning. All the time of our stay here we had very fair weather, only a shower of rain sometimes in the afternoon, which lasted not above an hour at most ; also some thunder and lightning, with very little wind. We had sea and land-breezes, the former between the south-south-east, and the latter from northeast to north-west. This place 1 named Port Montague , in honour of my noble patron, it lies in 60 degrees, 10 minutes, south latitude, and meridian distance from Cape St. George 151 miles west. The cpuntry therea- Yol. 111. R bouts
W I L LI A M D A M PIE R,. bouts is mountainous and woody, fust of ricii valleys, and pleasant freih-water brooks : Th: mould in the' valley is deep and yellowifn, that on the side of the hill of a very brown colour, and not very deep, but rocky underneath, yet excellent planting land. The trees, in general, are neither very strait, thick, nor tall; yet appear green and pleasant enough; some of them bore flowers, some berries, and others big fruits, but all unknown to any of us. Cocoa-nut-trees thrive very well here, as well on the bays by the lea- side, as more remote among the plantations -, the nuts are of an indifferent size-, the milk and kernel very thick and pleasant. Here is ginger, yams, and other very good roots for the pot, that our men saw and tasted. What other fruits or roots the country affords, I know not. Here are hogs and dogs other land-animals they saw none. The fowls we saw and knew were pigeons, parrots, cock- adores, and crows, like those in England a sort of birds about the bigness of a blackbird, and smaller birds' many. The sea and rivers have plenty of 6sit; we saw abundance, though we catched but few ; and these were cavellies, yeliow-tails, and whiprays. We failed March 22. On the 24th in the evening, about ten o'clock, I was called out of my cabin, where I then lav much indisposed, to see what the strip's crew called a miracle : On the north-west by west there appeared a large pillar of fire, shootng gradually for three or four minutes ; then sinking in the fame time, till it was scarce visible ; then rising again, and Hazing as before. I knew it immediately to be a volcano, or burning mountain,, and steered for it accordingly. On the 24th of the fame month in the evening, we found ourselves within three leagues of the island, in which this burning mountain was, and about two leagues from the continent. There was a good channel to pass between them ; and I kept nearer the main than the Hand. About seven in the evening I sounded, and had. fifty-two fathoms, fine sand and ouse. I stood to the northward, to get clear of this {freight,, having but little
to AUSTRALASIA. rzr tie wind, and fair weather. The island all night vo- !?sp> mited fire and smoke; and, at every explosion, we heard a dreadful noise, like thunder-, and saw a flame of fire after it, the most terrifying that ever I beheld. The intervals between these explosions were about half a minute, some more, others less : Neither were these pulses or eruptions alike ; for some were but faint convulsions, in comparison of the more vigorous: Yet even the weakest vented a great deal of fire but the largest made a roaring noise, and sent up a large flame twenty or thirty yards high ; and there might be seen a great stream of fire running down to the foot of the island, even to the shore. From the furrows made by this descending fire, we could, in the day-time, fee great smokes arise, which probably were made by the sulphureous matter thrown out of the funnel at the top, which, tumbling down to the bottom, and there lying in an heap, burned, till it was either consumed or extinguished ; and so long as it burnt, and kept its heat, so long the smoke ascended from it, which we perceived to increase or decrease, according to the quantity of matter discharged from the funnel. But the next night, being soot to the westward of the burning island, and the funnel of it lying on the south side, we could not discern the fire there, as we did the smoke in the day, when we were to the southward of it. Thisvulcano lies in the latitude of 5 degrees, 33 minutes, south, and its meridian distance from Cape St. George is 332 miles west. The east part of New-Guiney -lies forty miles to the west of this track of land ; and, in most of the charts, they are laid down as contiguous; but I found a large passage between them, calling the north-east promontory of New-Guiney , King fVillia rCs Cape and when I had perfectly discovered the island, I called it Nova Britannia. It lies from 2 degrees, 30 minutes,, to 6 degrees, 30 minutes, south latitude, and has about 5 degrees, 18 minutes, longitude. It appears to be, for the most part, high land, mixed with valleys, and every where abounding with large and stately trees: R 2 The
WILLIAM DAM PI ER. 1700. The island seems to be very fully inhabited by z race of strong, well-made Negroes, with whom I could enter into no correspondence, because my pinnace was in such a condition, that we could not safely make use of it to go ashore. I likewise discovered another island, about eleven or twelve leagues long, which I called Sir George Rooke's IJland •, and n6t long after another, which, from its form, I named Crown IJland \ and, to the north-west of that, we discerned a still larger isle, which 1 called Sir Robert Rich's IJland. On April 2, we discovered another burning island, and soon after many other islands, amongst which we discovered three veslels with fails j a thing unusual, and which we had never seen before, since we were upon these coasts. On April 12, the sky, at sun-rising, looked very red in the east, near the horizon; and there were many black clouds' both to the south and north of it. About a quarter of an hour after the fun was up, there was a squall to the windward of us, when, on a sudden, one of our men on the forecastle called out, that he saw something a- stern; but could not tell what. I looked out for it, and immediately saw a spout beginning to work within, a quarter of a mile of us, exactly in the wind. We presently put right before it. It came very swift, whirling the water up in a pillar, about six or seven yards high. As yet I could not fee any pendulous cloud, from whence it might come, and was in hopes it would soon lose its force. In four or five minutes time, it came within a cable's length of us, and passed away to leeward ; and then I saw a long pale stream coming down to the whirling water. This stream was about the bigness of a rainbow. The upper end seemed vastly high, not descending from any dark cloud; and therefore the more strange to me, as 1 never had seen the like before. It passed about a mile to leeward of us, and then broke. This was but a small spout, not strong, nor lasting; yet I perceived much wind in it, as it passed by us. The current still continued at north-west, a little westerly, which I allowed to run a mile per hour.
AUSTRALASIA. 133 J guessed from hence! that the land is disjoined here ; 1700. And, that there is a passage to the southward. Wv> ' We were now returning, and therefore I shall be shorter in my accounts. On the 26th, we saw the island qf Cerem , and endeavoured to pass between it and the island of Bonao ; but could not. We then made the issand of Bouro, where we met with a Chinese vessel, which, through a mistake, gave us a good deal of trouble; for, about eight at night, slie catne close by us on our weather-side ; which occasioned our getting all our guns ready, matches lighted, and small- arms upon the quarter-deck but she standing one way, and we another, we were soon far enough asunder. At ten in the next morning, having little wind, I sent the yawl aboard of her. She was laden with rice, arrack, tea, porcelane, and other commodities, bound for Jmboyna. The commander said, that his boat was gone ashore for water; and asked our men, if they law her •, for she had been missing two or three days, and they knew not what was become of her. They had their wives and children aboard, and probably came to fettle at some new Dutch factory. The commander also informed us, that the Dutch had lately settled at jJmpuh, Monippe , Bonao, and on a point of Ceram. The next day, we passed between Kellan and Bouro, After this, we had, for several days, an high- rolling sea, occasioned more by a current, than wind, which carried us five and twenty miles to the south of pur true course. We were now on the coasts of a known country; and therefore 1 resolved to take the first opportunity that offered of putting into port, in order to procure such necessaries as 1 wanted, and for the making the repairs requilite in my ship, which, by being so long out, was now become very foul and crazy, though we did not, at that time, suspect her being in so rotten and ruinous a condition, as we afterwards found her ; neither was it long before we met with {he opportunity we wished for. On the 14th, we discovered the Island Mis&cmhy ■, and,
1 34 WILLIAM DAMPIER, s.700. and, the next day, sailed along to the west, on the '" Y ' S ' north side of the island. In some charts it is called Omba , a mountainous island, diversified with woods and savannahs, about twenty leagues long, and five of fix broad. We saw no signs of inhabitants on it. We fell in nearest to the west end of it, and therefore I chose to pass on, intending to get through to the southward between this and the next Isle to the west of it, or between any other two islands to the west, where I should find the clearest passage, because the winds were now at north-east, and east north-east, and the isle lies nearly east and west; so that, if the winds continued, I might be a long time in getting to the east end of it, which yet I knew to be the best passage. Afternoon, being near the end of the isle Pentare , which lies west from Misacomby , we saw many houses and plantations in the country, and abundance of cocoa-nut trees growing by the sea-fide. We also saw several boats failing cross a bay or channel at the west end of Misacomby , between it and Pentare. We had but little wind, and that at north, which blows right in, with a swell wherefore I was afraid to venture in, though probably there might have been good anchoring, and a means of acquiring a commerce with the natives. I continued steering to^the west, because, the night before, at sun-setting, I saw a small, round, high island to the west of Pentare , where I expected a good passage. We could not that day reach the west end of Pentare -, but saw a deep bay to the west of us, where, I thought, there might be a passage through between Pentare and Laubana -, but the lands were sour with one another, so that we could not fee any passage. I ordered them to fail seven leagues more westerly, and lie by till next day. In the morning, we looked out for an opening ; but could fee none : Yet, by the distance and bearing of an high round island, called Po'toro , we were got to the west of the opening ; but not far from it. I therefore tacked, and stood to the east; and the rather because I had reason to suppose this
to AUSTRALASIA. 13.5 this to be the passage I came through in the Cygnet, I 7 0Q " mentioned in my voyage round the world ; but I was not yet sure of it, because we had rainy weather ; so that we could not now see the land so well as we did then. We accidentally saw the opening at our first falling in with the islands, which now was a work of time and difficulty to discover: However, before ten o'clock, we saw the opening. The wind was fouth- south-west, and we plied to get through before night; for we found a good tide helping us to the south. A- bout seven or eight leagues west of us, we saw an high, round, peaked mountain, from the top of which a smoke teemed to ascend, as from a volcano. There tvere three other very high peaked mountains, two on the east, and one on the west of that which smoked. It was twelve at night before we got clear of two other small islands ; and there we had a very violent tide setting us through against a brisk gale of wind. When we were through, we continued our course for 'Timor , in sight of which we came on May 18. On June 23, we saw the streigh^s of Sunder, and, towards the latter end of the month,, we arrived safely in the road of Ba~ tavia. I staid at Batavia upwards of three months, where I first ordered the lhip to be repaired, 'and afterwards found it necessary to careen her ; for which purpose I hired vessels to take in our guns, balast, provisions, and stores. While we lay here, we heard several reports in relation to our men of war that were cruising on the coast of India ; and there was much discourse likewise of pirates, who had committed great depredations on the coast, and particularly in the streights of Malacca. I did not hear of any ships lent out to reduce them. At. my first coming in, 1 had been told, that two ships had been sent from Amboyna in quest of me, which was quickly confirmed by one of the skippers, whom 1, by accident, met with here. He told me, they had three protests against me ; that they came to Pulo Sabuda , on the coast of New-Guinea, twenty-
en 6 WILLIAM DAMPlER tioi. twefity-eight days after my departure thence; and went as far as Schcu'ten's Island, and, hearing no further news of me, returned. Something likewise to this purpose Mr. Merry, commander of the Fleet frigate, told me at my first arrival here; and, that the general at Batavia had a copy of my commission and instructions ; but I looked upon it as a very improbable thing. However it was, I did not give myself much trouble about these things, knowing well, that the better they were acquainted with the authority by which I was protected, the less ready they would be to offer me any injury. The Dutch , during the time we lay here, came to a resolution of fending three ships sooner to Europe than was usual. The day fixed for their failing was the sixteenth of October, and I took all proper precautions to be ready to fail about the time they did. Accordingly, on the iyth of the fame month, at half an hour after six in the morning, I failed from Batavia , having the advantage of a fair wind at south ; so that, on the 19th about noon, I fetched up the three Dutch ships before -mentioned. Novem- ver 29th, in the morning, we saw a small hawk flying about the ship, till it was quite tired. Then she rested on the mizentopsail-yard, where we caught her. It is probable she was blown off from Madagascar by the violent northerly winds, that being the nighest land to us, though distant near 150 leagues. December 30th, we arrived at Cape Good Hope , and departed again on January nth, 1701. About the end of the month, we saw abundance of weeds or blubber swim by Us ; for I cannot determine which. It was all of one shape and colour. As they floated on the water, they seemed to be of the breadth of the palm of a man's hand, spread out round into many branches, a- bout the bigness of a man's finger. They had, in the middle, a little knob, no bigger than the top of a man's thumb. They were of a dusky colour , and, as they swam in the water, did not appear to be stronger than a kind of jelly. These sort of things are frequent
to AUSTRALASIA. 137 quent in those seas, and indeed in most; parts of the 1701. Eajl-Indies. Sharks are not very common here ; yet w '"' some I have seen, particularly off the island of Timor. In my return, 1 saw one under the stern of our strip, which was, beyond comparison, the largest that ever I beheld; and all my crew were of the same opinion. Our strip, after all the care that had been taken, appeared to be still leaky; but we were in hopes of meeting with an opportunity at St. Helena to discover the cause of our misfortune, and to find some means to remedy it: In which, however, we were disappointed, though as much care was taken by the superiour officers, as it was possible for men to take in their stations. February 2d, we anchored in St. Helena road ; and sailed again from thence on the 13th. On the 21 st, we made the island of Ascension , and stood in towards it. The 22d, between eight and nine o'clock, we sprung a leak, which increased, so that the chain- pump could not keep the strip free; whereupon I set the hand-pump to work also, and, by ten o'clock, sucked her : Then wore the strip, and stood to the southward, to try if that would ease her; and then the chain-pump just kept her free. At five the next morning, we made sail, and stood in for the bay, and, at nine, anchored in ten fathoms and an half water, sandy ground. The south point bore fouth-south-west, distance two miles; and the north point of the bay north-east half north, distance two miles. As soon as we anchored, I ordered the gunner to clear his powder-room, that we might there search for the leak, and endeavour to stop vvithin-board, if it was possible -, for we could not heel the ship so low, it being within four streaks of the keel; neither was there any convenient place to heel her ashore. I ordered the boatswain to assist the gunner 5 and, by ten o'clock, the powder- room was clear. The carpenter's mate, gunner, and boatswain, went down; and, soon after, I followed them myself, and asked them, Whether they could Vol. III $ come
WILLIAM D A M PIER, 138 1701. come at the leak? They said, they believed they might, by cutting the deling. I told the carpenter's mate, who was the only person in the {hip that understood anything of carpenter's work, that, if he thought he could come at the leak by cutting the deling, without weakening the (hip, he might do it; for he had stopped one leak so before; which, though not so big as this, yet, having seen them both, I thought he might as well do this, as the other: Wherefore I left him to do his best. The deling being cut, they could not come at the leak; for it was a* gainst one of the foot-hook-timbers, which the carpenter's mate said, he must first cut before it could be stopped. ' I went down again to see it, and found the water to come in very violently. I told them, I had never known any such thing as cutting timbers to stop leaks; but if they, who ought to be the best judges in such cases, thought they could do any good, I bid them use their utmost care and diligence, promising the carpenter's mate, that I would always be a friend to him, if he could and tSxiuld stop it. He said, by four o'clock in the afternoon he would make all well, it being then about eleven in the forenoon. In the afternoon, my men were all employed in pumping with both pumps, except such as alfisted the carpenter's mate. About one in the afternoon I went down again; and the carpenter's mate was cutting the after-part of the timber over the leak. Some said it was best to cut the timber away at once. I bid them hold their tongues, and let the carpenter's mate alone; for he knew best, and 1 hoped he would do his utmost to stop the leak. I desired him to get every tiling ready for stopping the violence of the water, before he cut any farther, for fear it should overpower us at once. I had ordered the carpenter to bring all the oakham he had, and the boatswain to bring all the waste cloaths, to stuff in upon occasion ; and had, for the same purpose, sent down my own bed-cloaths. The carpenter's mate said, he should want short stan- chons
to AUSTRALASIA. ahons to be placed so, that the upper part should touch 1701. the deck, and the under-part rets on what was laid o- W " J ver the leak ; and presently took a length for them. I asked the mafter-carpenter what he thought best to be done. He replied, till the leak was all open, he could not tell. Then he went away to make a stanchon ; but it was too long. I ordered him to make many of several lengths, that we might not want of any size : So, once more desiring the carpenter's mate to uie his utmost endeavours, 1 went up, leaving the boatswain and some others there. About five o'clock, the boatswain came to me, and told me, the leak was increased ; and that it was impossible to keep the lhip above water, when I expected, on the contrary, to have had the news of the leak's being stopped. I presently went down, and found the timber cut away; but nothing in readiness to stop the force of the water from coming in. I asked them, Why they would cut the timber, before they had got all things in readiness ? The carpenter's mate answered, they could do nothing till the timber was cut, that he might take dimensions of the place ; and that there was a chalk he had lined out preparing by the carpenter's boy. I ordered them, in the mean time, to stop in oakham, and some pieces of beef; which was accordingly done : But all to little purpose ; for now the water gullied in with such violence, that, notwithstanding all our endeavours to check it, that it flew in ever the cieling, and, for-want of passage out of the room, overflowed it above two feet deep. I ordered the buiknead to be cut open, to give passage to the water, that it might drain out of the room: And withal ordered to clear away abaft the bulkhead, that we might bale ; lo that now we had both pumps going, and as many baling as could ; and, by this means, the water began to decrease, which gave me some hope of saving the ship. I asked the carpenter's mate, What he thought of it ? He answered, Fear not; for, by ten o'clock at night, I will en-
1 4 0 WILLIAM DAM PIER, soot-gage to stop the leak. I went from him with a very heavy heart; but, putting a good countenance upon the matter, encouraged my men, who pumped and baled very briskly ; and, when I saw occasion, I gave them some drams to comfort them. About eleven o'clock at night, the boatswain came to me, and told me, that the leak still increased -, and that the plank was so rotten, it broke away like dirt; and that now it was impossible to save the ship; for they could not come at the leak, because the water in the room war. got above it. The rest of the night we spent in pumping and baling. I worked myself, to encourage my men, who were very diligent ; but the water still increased, and we now thought of nothing but laving our lives : Wherefore I hoisted out the boat, that, if the strip should sink, we might be saved ; and, in the morning, we weighed our anchor, and warped in nearer the shore, though we did but little good. In the afternoon, with the help of a sea-breeze, I ran into seven fathoms water, and anchored; then carried a small anchor ashore, and warped in, till I came within three fathoms and an half; where having fastened her, I made a raft to carry the mens chests and bedding ashore, and before eight at night most of them were ashore. In the morning, I ordered the sails to be unbent to make tents, and then myself and officers went ashore. I had sent ashore a puncheon, and a thirty-six gallon caste of water, with one bag of rice, lor our common use; but great part of it was stolen away before I came ashore, and many of my bocks and papers lost. On the 26th following, we, to our great comfort, found a spring of fresh water, about eight miles from our tents, beyond a very high mountain, v. Inch we were forced to pass over; so that now we were, by God's providence, in a condition of subsisting for some time, having very good turtle by our tents, and water for the fetching. The next day I went up to fee the watering-place, accompanied with most
'ro AUSTRALASIA. most of my officers. We lay by the way all night, and the next morning early got thither, where we found a very fine spring on the louth-east side of the high mountain, about half a mile from its top ; but the continual fogs make it so cold here, that it is very unwholesome living by the water. Near this place are abundance of goats and land-crabs. About two miles south-east from the spring, we found three or four shrub-trees, upon one of which was cut an anchor and cable, and the year 1642 : About half a furlong from these, we found a convenient place for sheltering men in any weather : Hither many of our men resorted, the hollow rocks affording convenient lodging. The goats, land-crabs, men-of-war-birds, and boobies, are good food, and the air proved here exceeding wholesome. About a week after our coming ashore, our men, that lived at this new habitation, saw two ships making towards the island before night they brought me the news; and 1 ordered them to turn about a score of turtles for these ships, if they should touch here; but, before morning, they were out of sight, and the turtles were released again. Here we continued, without any other ship, till April ad, when we saw eleven sail to windward of the island but they likewise passed by. The day after, appeared four sail, which came to anchor in this bay. They were his Majesty's ships the Anglesey, Hajlings, and Lizard , and the Canterbury Eajl-India ship. I went on board of the Anglesey , with about thirty-five of my men ; and the rest were disposed of into the other two men of war. After this happy escape, we left the island of Ascension on March 8, and arrived safely at Barbadoes, on May 8, 1701. Through the desire I had of returning to England , and to vindicate my character, which I knew, must suffer greatly from the unlucky accident that had befallen me, I took the first opportunity that offered of returning in the Canterbury Eafl-Indiaman •, in which passage I met with nothing material. The same 14 * 1701. V/VU
142 WILLIAM DAMPIER, 1701. same earnest desire to clfenr up mistakes, to do myself justice in the opinion of the world, and to set the discoveries made in this unfortunate voyage in their proper light. That it may be of use to the world, how unlucky soever it proved to me, is the reason that induced me to publisti it; and I persuade myself that such as are proper judges of this fort of performances, will allow, that I have delivered many things new in themselves, capable of affording much instruction to such as meditate future discoveries, and which, in other respects, may be of great utility to the present age, and to posterity. R E M ARKS. This is the third long voyage made by Dampier. The reader has already seen the second inserted in its proper place. He had made another in his youth to the bay of Campeachy , and the Isthmus of Darien, whence he got by land to the South-Lea, with Sharp , IVafer , and other Buccaneers. He made a fourth voyage to the Pacific Ocean , in the year 1704, where he was present at taking the city of Puna , and when they came to the Island Lobos , he left the ship he commanded in this expedition, and went to the East-Indies in a Spanifl) vessel. Here JVoods Rogers tells us, that the Dutch-, with their usual humanity, treated this famous seaman very ill. They seized all his effects, and even imprisoned him, under the pretext that he had no commission to show, as indeed he had.not, having lost it at the attack of Puna. But the Dutch, besides their natural brutality, by which they have ever been distinguished in the East-Indies, had a particular enmity a- gainst this intelligent mariner, and they wanted, by destroying the man, to. obliterate the memory of his extensive and valuable discoveries in these seas, where he had opened a tract, which, we hope, will soon be followed, and must place us near to those islands, which the Dutch, during the inglorious reign of the pedant
to AUSTRALASIA. pedant James , drove us from, after massacring our countrymen established there, with the most diabolical cruelty. We are not of opinion, that the dismal tragedy of Amboyna , could give the Dutch any legal claim to the spices of this fertile island, and the only proper atonement we can now make to the manes of our slaughtered countrymen, is to wave the Britijh flag, in all its glory, over their untimely graves. But, to return, Damper made a fifth voyage round the globe, in the year 1708, as chief pilot to Captain Rogers , an account of which, our readers will find in its proper place. arsr in / *43 701. VOYA-
W'>
t L_ VOYAGES TO THE TERRA AUSTRALIS. B O O K IV Containing the Accounts of the Voyages made to that Quarter of the Globe, during the Eighteenth Century. ARTICLE I. FUNNELL, to MAGELLANICA. voyage has usually passed under the name Captain IVilliam Ddmpier ; but, as he A proceeded only to the South-Seas, and the circumnavigation was fcntirely performed by Mr. William Funnell, I thought it more proper that his name should Hand in the title than that of Damper's, with whom, in this voyage, we have much less to do. Thus much, however, is in justice dde to Captain IVilliam Dampier, that it was upon his credit, and in expectation of his being able to do great matters in the Spanijh PVefl-Bidks that these ships were fitted out, and this expedition undertaken ; which shows, that Vol. 111* T the
146 WILLIAM FUNNELL, 1705. the misfortune he met with in the Roebuck, had not as- w '""' fccted his character with the merchants, who, to be sure, were the properest judges in this matter. The point they aimed at was plunder, rather than discovery ; and yet there is something very remarkable in this voyage in that way, and the unknown islands which Mr. Funnel! met with in his passage from the South Seas to the Eaft-Indies , are the strongest confirmation of what former discoverers have reported, as to large, weli-cultivatcd, and populous countries, in those parts. It must likewise be acknowledged, that Funnell' s y'oy- ages, though they are recounted with the greatest appearance of sincerity and simplicity, yet are better digested, and may be, consequently, read with more satisfaction, than Dumpier' s ; probably, because he had but one point in view, viz. that of giving his readers a fair and agreeable account ot his adventures. It must be observed, that this expedition was undet- taken in the beginning of the last general war, when mighty expectations were raised of performing great exploits against the Spaniards, who, of a sudden, from being our fast friends, and favourite allies, came to be considered as our enemies, on their accepting the Duke of Anjcu, grandion to Lewis XIV. for their king. This induced the merchants to believe, that, with a reasonable force, a very profitable expedition might be made into thole parts, where the Buccaneers, with small vessels, and those ill provided, had performed such extraordinary things; and, therefore, when they had obtained the best information they could, as to the methods proposed to be taken for the effecting such a design, they entered cheerfully on the expences necessary for that purpose. In order to this, they fitted out at first two (hips of tvvenry-lix guns, and 120 men each, designed for the South Seas. The one was named the St. George, Captain William Dumpier commander, in which was Mr. William Funnell ; and the o- ther the Fame, John Pulling, Captain. They were both supplied with all warlike stores, and very well victualled
147 TO' MAGEL LANICA, &c. victualled for nine months ; and had commissions from >7°3- his Royal Highness Prince George, then Lord High ' ,orw ' Admiral, to proceed against the French and Spaniards ; and both were upon the fame terms, of no purchase, no pay. But, whilst they were in the Dozens, there arising some difference between the two captains, Captain Pulling, in his {hip the Fame, went away, intending, as he laid, to go and cruize among the Canary Islands, and they never saw him afterwards; but, before their going from Ireland, they were joined by another ship, sent after them on purpose; she was a small vessel, named The Cinque-ports galley, burden a- bout ninety tons, sixteen guns, and fixty-tbree men, id harks Pickering captain : Which strip was also very well victualled, and provided for the voyage. It mult be remarked here, that this desertion of Captain Pulling was absolutely the ruin of the voyage ; and, therefore, this ought to be a warning to all societies of merchants, that enter upon such undertakings, never to join two officers, of discordant tempers, on any terms; for, where harmony is wanting, success cannot be expected. Besides, officers intrusted on such occasions ought to know, that the first principle of their conduct should be duty to their owners -, for this, in private men of war, comes in the place of loyalty, which is the supreme virtue in the commander of a king's ship; and, where either is wanting, it is absurd to hope for any great matters. Pride, lelfifhness, and narrow notions can never make a figure any where, much less in a naval expedition; where, if it once becomes a maxim, that every man ought to take care of himself, there is an end of all; whereas, if it be laid down as a fundamental point, that the general good is, in all cafes, to be pursued, the advantage of individuals will follow of courle, and every man be enriched by barely pursuing orders. The original design of this undertaking, fays Mr. Funnell, was to go first into the river of Plate, as far as Buenos Byres, in order to take two or three Spanijh T 2 gateons,
i 4 8 WILLIAM FUNNELL, 1703 galeons, which Captain Dampier asserted were usually W ' J there ; and if, by that expedition, we got to the value of 600,000 1. then we were to return again without proceeding further ; but if we missed of success there, then to cruize upon the coast of Peru for the Baldivia ships, which bring down gold to Lima •, but, if that design should also fail, then to attempt some rich towns, according as Captain Dampier should think fit: And, after that, we were, at the usual time of the year, to go upon the coast of Mexico to look for the great galeon which trades from Manilla , one of the Pbilipr- pine Islands, to Acapulco , on the coast of Mexico , and which is commonly reported to be worth fourteen millions of pieces of eight. The reason we did not go to Buenos Ayres was, because, on our arrival at Madeira^ we had advice, that the galeons from thence were safely arrived at Teneriff, How well we pursued the latter part of our instructions, the subsequent history of our voyage will sufficiently declare, in which I have used the greatest sincerity and freedom, setting down every thing that happened, in the manner in which it happened, with whatever appeared to me worthy the reader's notice, in the plainest way imaginable: So that I flatter myself the whole will be found useful; and that the latter part, especially, will be e- steemed new, curious, and entertaining, inasmuch as it contains many things which have never hitherto been published in our language. " We sailed on April zorh, 1703, out of the Downs-, and, on May 18th, anchored at Kinsale in Ireland. Here we refitted and victualled our ship, and were joined by the Cinque-ports ; ar. on September i i th, left Kinsale •, and, on the 25th, we reached the Island of Madeira , where we did not anchor, but lay off-and-on for our boats that were sent ashore for necessaries. By a good observation, I make this island to lie in the latitude of 32 degrees 20 minutes north, and longitude, by my account, from Londcn , 18 degrees 5 mmurss west. We departed September 28th,
149 to MAGELLANIC A, Scc. ©n the 30th, saw Palma and Faro, the two westermost tysz. of the Canary Islands, they being in all seven, so call- ed from Canaria, the chief. We did not stop here, but made the best of our way for the Cape de Verd Islands ; and, October 6th, saw the island of Mayo , lying in the latitude of 15 degrees, 10 minutes north, and longitude from London 24 degrees, 29 minutes west. We lay off-and-on all night, but could not get off any salt, because here ran so great a surf, that we dared not venture our boats ashore: So, on C'ctober 7th, in the morning, we bore away for St. lago , and, at noon, anchored at Prior Bay. This bay lies in the latitude of 14 degrees, 5 minutes, and west from London, 24 degrees 47 minutes. This is one of the southermost and most fruitful of the Cape de Verd Isles, abounding in hogs, fowls, Guinea hens, monkeys, maize, oranges, lemons, dates, water-melons, plantains, bananas, &c. Here is good water, but troublesome fetching; and wood is very dear. The natives of this place were formerly Portuguese, who were banished thither for murders, thefts, and other villainies but now they are mostly black, by reason of their Converse with their women-slaves, which are Guinea Negroes ; but, notwithstanding they have changed their colour, yet they still retain their vices, thieving being commoner here than in any place I have been at; insomuch that they will take your hat off your head at noon-day, in the midst of company : You must also be very wary. how you trade with them ; for, if you let them have your goods before you have theirs, you will be sure to lose them. At this place we watered our ship, and refreshed ourselves; and here being some disagreement between our captain and first lieutenant, the former turned the latter a snore, with his chest, cloaths, and servant, much against both his and his servant's will, about twelve o'clock at night. At four the next morning, being October 13th, we parted from the said island, not fully resolved what place |o touch at next. Oi
150 WILLIAM FUNNELL, I 7 ° 3 - On November 26, we passed the Equator, about forry-five leagues to the westward of the meridian of ■the istand of St. Jago : We law this day abundance of flying-fiih. On the 8th, in the evening, we found the variation, by a good amplitude, to be 5 degrees, 20 minutes easterly, latitude by observation south, 10 degrees, 20 minutes, and longitude west from the island of St. Jago, 5 degrees, 36 minutes. There are three islands called by the name of St. Anne's, not a- bove a stone's throw from each other; they are very full of wood, as is all the Brasilian coast. These islands are distant from the main about four miles. This place is very much troubled with southerly winds, which blow in gusts; therefore your only way is to lay your best anchor to the southward, and all little e- nough sometimes. The islands produce nothing but wood, and have a vast many fea-fowls upon them, which our sailors called Boobies. The booby is much a- bout the bigness of a duck: Some are quite white, some grey ; they have feet like a duck, being a water-fowl: They feed mostly upon flying-fiih, which they catch flying: | have made many a meal of these birds, but it was for want of other victuals: They taste very fishy, and if you do not fait them very well before you eat them, they will make you sick. They are so silly, that, when they are weary of flying, they will, if you hold out your hand, come and lit upon it; from whence I conjecture, that they are called Boobies. November 24th, we anchored at the island of Le Grand, whose latitude is 23 degrees, 30 minutes south, longitude from London, 40 degrees 24 minutes west ; and found here about 11 degrees, east variation. This is a very woody island, and hath several very good springs of frelh water upon it The soil is black, and the island is about nine leagues round, and distant from the main about three miles. In it are jackals, lions, tygers, &c. which, in the night, make a most hideous noise, enough to terrify any man. Here are rum, sugar, and several sorts of Indian fruits to be had, but very dear, on
to MAGELLAN I CA. 151 on account of their supplying the town of Saint Paul' s i7°3f with these necessaries-, near which town is said to be W ' J a gold-mine, accounted one of the richest hitherto known. It is distant from the town of Le Grand about 300 miles; and is reckoned, by the vast high mountains that intercept the passage, to be lixty days journey. At this place we wooded, watered, and refitted our ship. Here our new first-lieutenant, with eight of our men, our captain and they falling out, went ashore with their goods, and left us here : Also Charles Pickering, Captain of the Cinque-ports , our consort, departed this life, and his body was buried ashore at the watering-place, with the usual ceremony of firing of guns; and Mr. Thomas Stradling , his lieutenant, took command of his ship. Here is good fish of various forts, as the silver-fish, and several others. The sil- ver-fifh is about twenty inches long, in height, from! the top of his head to the bottom of his belly, eight inches ; he hath five small fins on the hinder part of his head, and one large one, reaching from the hinder- most of the five small ones to the tail: He has two middling ones, one on each side near the gills, and a large one, stretching from the middle of the bottom of his belly to his tail, which is half-mooned. He has a large eye, a wide pair of nostrils, and a small mouth : It is a very thin fish, and very bony : He is of a very fine transparent white, and thence called by us a silver-filh. We failed from the Island Le Grand , December 8 th, resolving not to touch any more till we arrived at the Island Juan Fernandez, in the South Seas. On the 29 th of the fame month, we failed near the islands of Sebald de IVeert from which island there came a very remarkable bird, which, because it pleased me very much then, 1 will now describe. It was about the bigness of a duck, and of a very line white colour; his bill yellow, and, both above and below the bill, were long grey hairs, like whiskers; and, instead of feathers at the bottom of his eye-iids, he had short stiff hairs, which were black. We
t B t William funnell, *7°3* We prosecuted our voyage for the South Seas till January 4th, 2704, when, in the latitude of 57 degrees 50 minutes, we met with a most dreadful storm, in which we were separated from our consort the Cinque- ports , which added to the number of our uneasinesses, and put the seamen much out of humour. On the 20th of the same month, we were in the latitude of 60 degrees 51 minutes south; and, believing that we had now doubled Cape Horn , we tacked and stood to the northward. On February 4th, we saw the island la Mouchd, in the latitude of 38 degrees 30 minutes south. This ifland is very well inhabited by Indians, who are always at war with the Spaniards , and indeed with all white men, because they think them Spaniards . It is a high island, four leagues in length, and has many Iholes on the west side, which run a league or more into the sea. It is distant from the port Valdi- •bia, twenty-five leagues northward. February 5th, we found the variation to be 7 degrees, 20 minutes easterly latitude, by observation south, 35 degrees, 33 minutes longitude ; from London 80 degrees, 19 minutes. February 7th, we saw the Island of Juan Fernandez, and so stood off-and-on ; but, drawing pretty near it, our captain thought it not to be the right island-, so we tacked, and stood to the eastward; but, on February 10th, after we had stood about thirty leagues to the eastward, not seeing any land, we stood back again to the same island; and, passing by the great bay, we saw our consort Captain Stradling in the Cinque-ports, who had arrived here three days before: So we anchored in the little bay, in twelve fathoms water, ousy ground ; but, finding it not convenient lying here, we weighed, and went to the great bay, where we anchored in thirty-five fathoms water, the variation there being 6 degrees, 5 minutes easterly. An this island we wooded, watered, heeled, and refitted our ships, the doing of which took us up a great deal of time, and obliged both ships company to be much ashore; during which time, a difference happened
to MAGELLANICA, &c. 15 $ ed between C'apr. Stradling and his men, which rose at i 7 ° 4 - last to such an height, that the crew absolutely refused to go on board ; but, at last, the matter was compromised, by the mediation of Captain Dampier , and the men returned on board their ihip. On February 29, 1704, our people observed a sail, on which we all hurried aboard, (lipped our cables, and stood to sea. The Frenchman , for so he afterwards proved, feeing us get under fail, tacked, and stood from us, and we made the best of our way after him, our consort making what haste he could after us; and, about eleven at night, we came close up with him, but did not think convenient to engage till day. In this chace our pinnace towed under water; so we cut her loose; Captain Stradling'% boat got also loose, and in her were a man and a dog. At sun-rise, the next morning, being March ist, we began to engage the said vessel, which was a French (hip of about 400 tons and thirty guns, well manned. We fought her very close, broadside and broadside, for seven hours; and then, a small gale springing up, (he sheered off. As for our consort, he fired about ten or twelve guns, and then fell a-stern, and never came up again during the fight. We had nine of our men killed in the dispute, and several wounded : We were desirous to have had another trial with him, knowing it would be of dangerous consequence to let him go; for, if we did, we were sure he would discover us to the Spaniards, which would destroy our whole proceedings. But our Captain was a- gainst it; saying, that, at the worst, if the Spaniards lhould know of our being in those seas, and so Ihould hinder their merchant-fhips from coming out, yet that he knew whither to go, and not fail of taking to the value of 500,000 1 . any day in the year. Upon this, we lay by for our consort, who soon came up; and it was quickly agreed between the two captains to let her go; lo the enemy stood from us, and we concluded to return to Juan Fernandez to get our anchors, longboats, and f veral tons of-water calked, with a ton of Vot. 111. U sea-
i 5 4 WILLIAM FUNNELL, 1704. sea-lions oil, which we had left here; and Captain Stradling had left five of his men, who were gone to the west part of the istand, and knew nothing of our going out after the enemy; he had also left behind him all his fails, except those at the yard, with a great many other stores. We had then the wind at south, right off the land, so that we found it very difficult to get up with it; but it falling calm, the Cinque~ports put out her oars, and rowed towards the island : Presently after which, we saw two sail ; the Cinque-ports was pretty near them, and they fired several shot; but flic rowed away to us, and gave us an account, that they were two French ships, each of about thirty-six guns: So that the two captains thought it convenient not to gp in, but to go away for the coast of Peru , leaving behind Captain Stradling' s five men, with other necessaries that we could very ill spare ; for now we had neither of us any boats; However, according to their a- greement on March 6th, we stood away for the coast of Peru and, on the nth, fell in with the land, it being very high, three rows of hills one within another, that towards the water lowest, and that farthest within land highest. We were then in the latitude of 24 degrees, 53 degrees south ; from thence we coasted a- long shore to the northward ; and, on the 14th, passed the Port of Ccpiapo. This is said to be a very good port, and to be fenced from almost all winds. Near to the port are four or five rocks; and within land it is inhabited by Indians , who make good wine here are said also to be good meat, corn, and other necessaries. In this port they load wine, money, and other goods, for Ccquimho: We would very willingly have gone ashore here to have got some refreshments, but could not for want of boats : The land continues very high and mountainous; so that, I think, it is the highest land 1 ever saw. We were surprised, on the 19th of the same month, by seeing the colour of the waves of the sea changed into red for seven or eight leagues; though, upop lbynding,
to MAGELLANICA &c. soundibg, we found no ground for 170 fathoms-, but, >704. upon drawing up the water, and examining it closely, this accident appeared to be owing to a vast: quantity of fiih-spawn swimming on the surface. We were now in the latitude of 16 degrees, 11 minutes south, and had only forty-eight minutes variation to the eastward, having failed by the three famous ports of Arica, Tlo, and Arequipa. On March azd, we found ourselves off the Port of Lima, the capital of Peru, where we saw two sail of ships steering for that port: We presently gave chace, and soo'rt came up with the sternmost ; the proved to be the stop we fought with off the Island of Juan Fernandez. We were very eager to stop her going in; for, if we could have done it, it would have hindered the Spaniards from having intelligence of us: Besides, we did hot question the taking of her, because now our men were in good health; whereas, when we fought her before, we had between twenty and thirty very sick and weak ; but, being willing to strew themselves, they had done what they could. We considered also her guns, ammunition, and provisions would be very welcome to us; so we concluded to engage her ourselves, and to fend Captain Stradling after the other, which seemed not so big ; but Captain Dampier did not think it adviseable to attack her ; and, whilst the matter was disputing, both the strips got into Lima, from whence twenty such as ours could not have forced them out. This kind of proceeding gave great offence to most of the crew, and bad consequences might have followed it, if we had not, in the space of a few days, taken two very considerable prizes -, the first of 150, the second of 200 tons, out of which we took what thought would prove most serviceable, and then dismissed our prizes. On April 5th, we brgan to prepare for the great stroke our captain had in his head, viz. that of landing on the coast, and plund nag some rich city ; with which view our carpenters were ordered to fit up onr launches, or Spanijh long-boats, so as to land our men with safety, and to six two patereroes in U 2 each
156 WILLIAM FUNNELL, 1704. each launch. On the nth of the same month, -We w '"' took, as if she had been sent on purpose for our service, a bark of about fifty tons, laden with plank and cordage. This bark we took in sight of the Isle of Gallo, under which we anchored the next day with our prize, which we resolved to keep, in order to make use of her in the intended expedition. This Island of Gallo, is in 2 degrees, 45 minutes latitude, longitude from London well 76 degrees, 3!! minutes, dill ant from the main about five leagues, in length two leagues, in breadth one : When you are to the southward of it, it appears in three hammocks, which, at a diltance, look like three islands; and the land between each is very low; but when you are to the north-west of it, at the south end, you will see a small island, or rather rock, which looks much like a ship under sail; and, when you are at the north end, you will so open the land, as that you will fee part of it does not join to the island, as it seems to do when you are to the westward of it. At the north-east end of this island are three small islands, or rather rocks; one is pretty big, and, at a distance, looks like a barn, and the other like two fail of ships. At this island you may fee the main land, which is very low near the wa- ter-slde, but prodigious high up in the country. Here we anchored in 35 fathoms water, two cables length from the shore, hard sand. We anchored in the northwest part of the island ; the northermost point bearing north half west, the southermost south-west : The watering place goes in with a full gap, over which, upon the hill, is a plain spot of red earth, bearing north-west half north. Tho' there are also several other good watering-places upon this island; yet on the north-east part of Segnetta is the best anchoring: Here you may wood and water, very secure from any enemy. The island is very woody, affording large timber, which is often sent in shipping up to the coast of Peru. Here are some wild monkies, with abundance of lizards ; and a large fort of lizard, called a Lion-Uzard ;
to Magellanic a, &c. <57 ^hey are about the bigness of a man's arm-, I mea-1704. sured one, which, from the head to the end of the tail, was three feet eleven inches; he has a large sort of a comb upon his head, which stands up like an helmet, or head-piece, to defend his head; when he is assaulted or affrighted, he sets his comb up an end; but otherwise it lies down flat, in a deep dent in his' head just fitted to it-, so that, when it is down, it can hardly be perceived: He has two very large eyes, a large mouth, with a great many small sharp teeth. His skin is very rough, of a dark colour, full of black, yellow, and blueisn spots : In all other things he resembles a common lizard. When they are pursued, they will run very swift; yet our dog often catched them. After remaining here five days, we concluded to fail from hence; but, just as we were going to get up our anchors, we discevored a ship standing in for the island, which, when she came very near, we came out and took. She was a small vessel, of fifty tons, commanded by Mestizo. On board this ship we found a Guernsey man, who had been taken by the Spaniards as he was cutting logwood in the bay of Campeacioy, and had been in their hands above two years, and must have continued a prisoner for life, if we had not released him. When we sailed from the Island of Gallo, our resolution was to attack immediately the town of Santa Maria , which lay to the northward, because we expected to find there great quantities of gold, brought thither from the adjacent mines of the same name; bur this design unluckily miscarried, whether through fear, confusion, or the enemies having early intelligence, which enabled them to lay ambuscades that cut off a- bundance of our men, I cannot pretend to determine. This, however, is certain, that, May ist, we were so sick of our fruitless attempts on shore, that we resolved tp go immediately on board, which accordingly we did ; but there we met with new difficulties; for such was our scarcity of provisions, that five green plantains were
i 5 8 WILLIAM FUNNELL, 1704. were ordered to be boiled for every six men. Bat, td our great comfort, when we were almost out of hopes^ as well as patience, we observed a fail, at twelve this night, which came to an anchor close by us. We soon got up our anchor, and took her without any resistance; She proved a great ship of 150 tons : She was deeply laden with hour, sugar, brandy, wine, about 50 tons of marmalade of quinces, a considerable quantity of salt, with some tons of linen and woollen cloth ; so that now we might supply ourselves with provisions for four or five years. I was put on board this priz 6 on behalf of Captain Dampier , and our ship's company ; and the Master of the Cinque-ports was put on board as chief for Captain Stradling , and his ship's company. We carried our prize into the bay of Panama and^ on the 14th, anchored under the Island of Tobago. Here Captain Dampier and Captain Stradling disagreed; and the quarrel came at last to such an height, that there was no pacifying them ; so that, at last, it was concluded to part company, all the men being left at liberty to go with which captain they pleased; in consequence of which, five of our men went to Captain Stradling , and five of his came to us. We were told by the prisoners, that there were 8000 dollars on board our prize ; that they were taken in by stealth at Lima , and lay at the bottom in the run of the ship. Our captain did not believe this, and was unwilling to stay longer, that we might have rummaged her to the bottom, because he thought loss of time would mar his greater designs : Having, therefore, taken out a quantity of provision, she was dismissed; and we, on May 19th, parted from the Cinque-ports , intending to beat up again upon the coast of Peru. June 7th, we saw a sail, gave chace, came up with her, and took her. She was about 110 tons, came from Truxilio , and was bound for Panama , laden with flour, sugar, brandy, &c. with some bales of wrought silk in her. We took a packet, which we opened j the first letter we happened to read was from the captain
to MAGELLANIC A, drf. 159 tain of the French ship we fought off the Island of Juan i 7 ° 4 * Fernandez , and met with again off the Port of Lima : It was directed to the President of Pamama , and gave an account, " That he fought two Englijh privateers " off the llland of Fernandez ; that the smallest of the " two fired but eight or ten guns at him, and then " fell a-stern, and did not come up again during the " fight, as he believed, for want of wind that the " great ship (meaning us) fought him broadside and " broadside for more than fix hours ; that we killed " them a great many men ; and that, at his coming to " Lima , he sent alhore thirty-two of his men, each of " which had either lost a leg, an arm, or an eye; and " that it was a great chance we had not taken him; " for that, at our parting, they had given themselves " over as lost, not having men to defend themselves." We also had an account, by other letters, that the two Frenchmen which we saw off the llland "Juan Fernandez , had met with a boat at sea, in which there were an Englishman and a dog: (this was the boat which belonged to Captain Stradling , and which broke loose from him as we chafed the French ship off Juan Fernandez ;) That the said two French ships had been in at Juan Fernandez, and had taken up our anchors, cables, long-boat, with all Captain Slradling's stores, and his five men, and our Negro, which were left there. We also had advice, that the Spaniards had fitted out two men of war against us ; the one of thirty- two brass guns, twenty-four pounders each; the other of thirty- six guns, of the fame bigness. That each of them had 350 seamen, and 150 soldiers, choice men; and that they lay cruising for us in the bay of Guaiaquil , between Point St. Helena and Cape Blanco, from the 7th to the 12th. We were forced to go away with an easy sail, because of our prize, which failed very heavy, and, seeing it was likely to be a great hindrance to us, in beating to windward, we concluded to go into some place to rummage her: Accordingly, the same day, tye went into Sardinas bay, and anchored with our prize
s6o WILLIAM FUNNELL, 1704. prize in ten fathoms water, about four miles off shore; We durst not venture any nearer in, because of so many shoals and banks of sand, which lie off it, and which were very imperfectly laid down in all our draughts. The sea-coast here is inhabited by Indians, but they are not very numerous. Here are several small rivers, which run with fresh water down to the sea-side; and from this place, by the sea-side, all along to the southward, till you come to the Bay of 'Tacames, are white cliffs, and many shoals, as far as to Point Gallera. From this Bay of Sardinas , six leagues to the southward, is the great river of St. Jago , the mouth of which is about three quarters of a mile over; but there is no good anchoring, until you are got within the mouth. This river is seldom made use of by shipping, it lying out of the way; only in case of necellity, or by chance, they put in for refreshment; for here is plenty of all forts of provisions. It hath, on the sea-side, fourteen or fifteen pieces of broken ground, of a whitish colour; and, at the north-end of them, is the Bay of Sardinas , wherein we careened our ship, and rummaged oyr prize, and watered at one of the fresh-water rivers, the water of which was white like milk, and both fmelled and tasted very much of musk, occasioned by many alligators swimming in it. We shot several os them, one of which measured thirty feet in length, and was bigger about than a large bullock. This creature is very full of great scales, from the neck to the end of his tail: He has a very large sharp set of teeth, with very long claws on his feet: It is an amphibious ctea ture, living on land, as well as in water; when they are lying on shore, they look like a great tree fallen down, and for such one would take them at a distance. They will run very fast on the land, and are of such strength, that they will take an horse or cow, and carry it down to the water, and there devour it. They will seize oq any thing, as well on land as in the water;
to MAGELLANIC A, &c. 161 water; and commonly make great havock amongst cat- 1704- tie, if there be any near the place where they harbour, which is usually in fresh-water rivers. The Indians are not greatly afraid of them, neither in the water, nor on land. They run in a circle, and this great creature is not able to turn his unwieldy body so quickly, but that they easily get from him. The Indians likewise go into the water, to seek them, with a piece of iron, like an harpoon at both ends, and two pieces of iron across. This they hold by the middle in their hand ; and the alligators, when they bite, raise their heads out of tb.e water. Then the Indians hold out this piece of iron to them; at which they bite; and it fastens in their mouth, and keeps it open like a gag. The females lay eggs, about 100 at a time. These eggs are about the bigness of a goose's; but the shell is almost as thick as an ostrich's. 1 have seen many of them ; they are quite round. The flesh of the alligators is not fit to be eaten, it being very strong and musky; nay, the very water of the rivers, which they were in, tasted so strong of them, that is, of musk, that a draught of it would almost suffocate us. But, notwithstanding it is so nauseous, there are no instances of its doing any fort of prejudice to the constitutions of such as drink it. On June 21, being off the Bay of Guaiaqu.il , we saw a fail, and came up with her the next day. This happened to be one of thole Spanijb men of war fitted out on purpose to take us, and a ship of thirty-two guns. Being pretty near each other, they gave us a broadside; But we did not mind them. All our care was to get the weather-gage ; in order to which, while we carried too much fail, and the wind blew very fresh, our fore- topmast unfortunately came by the board. Immediately we got our hatchets, and cut all clear away; and our captain ordered the helm to be clapt a-weather, and bore away. The enemy, seeing this, immediately bore away after us, with all the fail they could, hoping to come up; for now they doubted not they should take us. We, observing that our running had increased their courage, resolved to lie by, and fight it out. Captain Vol. JII. X Damper's
162 WILLIAM FUNNELL, t~Q4'Dampier's opinion was, that he could fail better upon W ' J one mast than the enemy, and therefore it was belt to put before the wind-, but, however, chose rather to fight, than to be chased ashore : So, hoisting the bloody flag at the main topmast-head, with a resolution neither to give nor take quarter, we began the fight, and went to it as fast as we could load and sire. The enemy kept to windward, at a good distance from us-, Ib that we could not come to make use of our small- arms : But we divided the two watches; and one was to manage the guns, whilst the other looked on ; and, when those at the guns were weary, the others were to take their places, till they had refreshed themselves. By this means we fired, I believe, five guns to the enemy's one. We sired about 560, and he about 110 or 115-, and we sought him from twelve at noon, to half an hour past fix at night, although at a good distance; for he kept so far to windward os us, that our snot sometimes would hardly reach him, though his would, at the same time, fly over us. At half" an hour past fix, it growing dusk, they left off" siring ; and we did the lame. We had none of our men either killed or wounded by the enemy-, only two, through carelessness, had their hands and faces blasted. We lay py all night, and, in the morning betimes, looked out for our enemy, expecting to have had another brush with him ; but, contrary to our expectation, he had made sail from us in the night. Captain Dampkr told us, that his intention was now to leave the coast of Peru, in order to go and get provisions in the Bay of Tacames. Accordingly, having weathered Point Gallera, we anchored in that bay, and sent our boat ashore, with twenty men, to look for provisions ; but they soon returned on board again, with a very untoward account, viz. that they had met indeed with an Indian village of about fifty houses ; but that the inhabitants had abandoned it, and had left nothing behind them in their houses. In the river, however, we found a fine bark, of the burden of about fifty tons, with as much new planic by her, as would have served to '
to MAGELLANIC A, &c. 16 j to build another of the same size. We likewise look 1704. another small bark of about ten tons, laden with plan- W>J tains. This bark we intended to keep instead of a longboat. She had two masts, and two square sails; and, when we had fitted her for our purpose, we called her the Dragon. The country hereabouts is very pleasant, and well wooded and watered, with all the converse cy imaginable. About seven leagues to the northward lies the Bay of St. Matthew. The land about it is very high, and has a great many sholes running from it two. leagues into the sea; and for three or four leagues, the water is ihailow, that is, from four to six fathoms, where it is deepest. Southward and northward to the sea there are white cliffs, and the bay lies between them. In the bottom of the bay there are two rivers, that empty themselves into the sea but they are both what the seamen call alligator-vvater, that is, white and musky, as J have before described it. On each side of these rivers are sholes of sand, and, near their mouths, very sine groves of tall, spreading, green trees, which are the marks to find these rivers by for their mouths are so narrow, as not to be discerned at a distance. These rivers are seldom used by the Spaniards for any thing but refreshment: And, to say the truth, there cannot be a pro- perer place for that purpose, since all the country round about abounds with every kind of provision that this part of the world affords. About two leagues up the river, there are several villages, inhabited by the Indians , who, when the Spaniards come hither, furniih them with cocoa-nuts, plantains, bananas, a ltd other kinds of fruit. As we have often mentioned these, and shall be obliged to mention them frequently hereafter, it may not be amiss to enter into a particular description of them here, for the reader's information, and to render our accounts perfectly intelligible : The cocoa-tree generally speaking, from fifty to an hundred feet in height, for the most part, strait and slender. This tree produces leaves of f nir fathoms, or four and an half X 2 in
164 WILLIAM FUNNELL, * 7 ° 4 - in length, and hears the famous nut of the fame name. w ' v ' 1 which, with its outer rind is larger than a man's head, This outer rind being taken off, there appears a shell, which will hold near a quart. Within the shell is the nut; and within the nut is about a pint and an half of pure clear water, which is very cool, pleasant, and sweet. The kernel of the nut is also very pleasant arid; good, which, if it be pretty old, we scrape all to pieces. The scrapings we set to soak in about a quart of fresh water for three or four hours, and then strain the water, which, when strained, hath both the colour and taste of milk ; and, if it stand a while, it will have a thick head on it, not unlike cream. This milk, being boiled with rice, is accounted by our doctors to be very nourishing; for which reason we often , give it to our sick men. The leaves of the trees serve to thatch houses'. Of the outer rind of the nut they make what resembles linen-cloth. They also make of it ropes for ships, and rigging, cables, &V. which are a good commodity in most parts of the IVest-Indies. The shell of the nut will make very pretty drinkingcups. It will also burn very well, and make a fierce and hot fire. The kernel serves instead of meat, and water contained therein instead of drink ; and, if the nut be very old, : the kernel will, of itself, turn to oil, which is often made use of to fry with, but most commonly to burn in lamps so that from this tree they have, as is commonly said, meat, drink, clothing, houses, firing, and rigging for their ships. These trees may be known by any ships passing by; for they have no leaves, except just at the top. At the bottom of the leaves the cocoa-nuts grow, ten, fifteen, or twenty in a cluster, hanginghy a small string, which is full of joints. The plantain-tree is about thirteen or fourteen feet in height, and about four feet round. The leaves of the tree are about eight or nine feet long, and two feet broad, and end in a round point. The fruit grows at the bottom of the leaf, upon a great stalk, in a. cod about eight Inches long, and of the bigness of a black-pudding. The cod is of a fine yellow
to MAGELLANICA, &V. 165 low colour, often speckled wirh red. This being taken 1704- off, the inside of it is white ; but the plantain itself is yellow, like butter, and as soft as a ripe pear. There grow fifty or sixty sometimes upon a stalk, and five or fix stalks upon a tree. They are an extraordinary gopd fruit; and in most parts of the Eaft and Weft Indies' there is great plenty of them. The banana-tree is much the same, only the fruit is not so long as the plantain, that being about eight inches long, and the banana not above six. It grows in the same manner as the plantain, fifty or sixty in a cluster upon one stalk. The fruit is very mellow, and extraordinary sweet and good: On July 31, we left the Bay of 1'ac ames, and carried our little prize, named the Dragon , with us, not designing to touch at any place, till we came to the Gulf of iVi- coya . We sailed from the Bay of Tacames cross the Bay of Panama , and from thence continued our voyage to the Gulf of Nicoya , where, on August 16, we anchored near certain islands, which the Spaniards , from their being seated near the centre of the bay, call the Middle Islands ; and, the next morning, our captain and carpenter went in a canoe, to see if a proper place for careening could be found amongst them. In the evening of the same day, while we were employed in dressing a couple of turtles, which the captain had brought on board, our little prize came to us again. They had been up the river Changel , and found two or three Indian houses, and some plantain-walks. The Indians climbed the trees, and cut down from them as many plantains as they would have. They found also two canoes haled upon the sand, and brought them both off. In their way, they caught eight turtles, and eat nothing of their own provisions, but fed upon turtle during the time they were away from us. They gave us an account, that they had found out a very good and secure place at the Island St. Lucas for us to lay our siiip ashore in ; that it was in a fine deep bay, which, at the entrance, was not above a pistol-shot over; that, with five
l66 WILLIAM EUNNELL, 1704. five or six guns upon each point at the entrance, we W ' J might so fortify ourselves, that no enemy durst approach us; for that ten of us might defend ourselves against 500. However, we found the Middle Island to be as convenient as any place could be ; and, our captain seeming to like the place, and knowing we could fortify ourselves here, and with as little trouble, we chose it. Accordingly, on the 18th, it being fair weather, and calm, we towed our ship in amongst the island-, and lay within a stone's cast of the shore all round, with one anchor a-head, and a cable out at our stern, which was made fast to a great tree on the shore. As soon as we had fastened our ship, all hands went ashore, and began to build tents for our cooper and sail-maker to work in, and to put our goods and provisions in. In the mean time, our chief mate was sent in the small bark called the Dragon, with twenty men armed, and two patereros, to cruise in the Gulf; where after he had cruised five or six days, he returned with a Spanijh bark of about forty tons. She had in her some few jars of brandy, with wine, and some sugar. They were going to repair her, she being very old; and for that purpose had five or fix carpenters and caulkers on board, who came very opportunely to help us to repair our ship ; for we had great need of workmen. We took out our powder, shot, and all our ammunition, with all our bread, some of our flour, and two quarter-deck-guns, and put them on board this last bark. Then we got all the rest of our things ashore, and made every thing ready for cleaning our Ihip. The bottom of it was, in many places, eaten like an honey-comb ; insomuch that the firm plank was not thicker than an old sixpence : Nay, in some places in the hold, we could thrust our thumbs quite through with ease. Our ship being in this condition, and we in want of planks to new-bottom her, our carpenter was forced to make an hard shirr, and stop the leaks as well as he could with nails and oakam. On September 2, the chief mate, Mr. Clipping ton , having quarrelled with Captain Dampier, drew over
t-o MAGELLANIC A, &c. 167 over cne and twenty men to his party; and, having 1704. made himself master of the bark, in which was all our Wwl ammunition, and the best part of our provisions, got up her onchor, and went without the islands, from whence he sent us word, that he would put ashore our powder, shot, and other ammunition, (reserving only what was requisite for his own use,) in an Indian house; which he did accordingly, and we sent our canoes to fetch it onboa rd. These islands are extremely pleasant and fruitful, abounding with all things requisite to life ; such as fish of various kinds, and very good birds of different forts; and of amphibious creatures such as are most admired, and of the greatest use, particularly turtles and guanas. But, as general descriptions are seldom satisfactory, I will enter Into a more distinct account of the creatures most remarkable here, whether birds, beasts, or amphibious animals. The maccaw is a very beautiful bird; his feathers of all the colours in the rainbow. In point of size, he resembles an hawk ; in shape a parrot, only his bill is perfectly white, and his feet and legs are absolutely black. The carrion-crow is as big as a small turkey, and, in all respects, very like one; for I never saw any difference, either in colour or shape. The flesh of them both smells and tastes so strong of musk, that there is no eating of it. These creatures commonly resort to places where any dead creature is, and feed upon it; for which reason they are called carrion : But the reason why they are called crows, I know not; for they are nothing like them. The pelican is almost as big as a swan. Its colour is inclinable to white; only the tips of its wings are brown. It hath a long bill, of about twenty inches, with a very large crop joining to the lower part of his bill, and lo descending by the throat like a bag or satchel, very observable, and of a largeness almost beyond credit, into which it receives oysters, cockles, conchs, &c. or any other shellfish ; which being not able to break, it retains them until they open, and then, vomiting them up, picks out
x 68 WILLIAM FUNNELL, 1704. out the meat. As for their making a hole in their breast, to give their blood to their young, I do not believe it, nor ever saw any such thing, although I have seen thousands, both young and old, together, and have eaten many of them. They are good food ; only they taste fishy. They have broad feet, like a duck, being water-fowls; but they roost commonly on rocks, and in trees, and always sit with their heads to the wind; so that, if the wind changes while they are at roost, they turn about their heads to it. They are heavy birds, and sty very stow; and always, when they sit, either on rocks, trees, or in the water, they rest their bills upon their crop. The guana is a fort of creature, some of which are found on the land, and some in the water. It is about three feet long, more or less, and is a very ugly creature to look at, having great, sharp, black and green scales, from the fore part of his head to the end of his tail, and a set of great soarp teeth, with four long claws upon each foot. They breed commonly in the roots of old trees, near the water side, and frequent the water as well as the land. When they are stewed with a little spice, they make good broth ; and the stefh looks very white, and eats well ; but, if they are riot extraordinary well boiled, they are very dangerous to eat, making men very sick, and often putting them into a fever. There are several sorts of sea-turtles -, but we account the green turtle the best meat. They have several islands and sandy bays, where they go to lay their eggs, which they do in different places, at different times. And therefore at one, or at several of those places, their season of laying is always the fame, yet, in different places, their seasons are different. 1 have been ac the catching of them in most times of the year, and commonly found them full of eggs. When they want to lay, they go ashore in some sandy bay, and, with their fins, make an hole in the sand about two feet and an half deep, wherein they lay their eggs, commonly about eighty or ninety at a time. Then they cover them up
TO M A GEL LAN I CA, -&c. 169 Up with the sand they scraped out of the hole; and so 1704* leave them for the heat of the sun to hatch. Thus, they lay two or three times in a season; and, after they have laid, they go off to sea, and leave the young, when hatched, to lhift for themselves, which, as soon as they get out of the shell and sand* retire to the water-. The eggs are round, about the bigness of a duck's, with a white, thin, tough skin over them ; but ho shell. Both the eggs and the turtle are extraordinary good food. I have seen of this sort of green turtle several times from 200 to 350 and 400 weight. The lean of them, before it is dressed, looks like beef j but the fat is as green as grafs, and yet it is very wholesome food. The pearl-oyster is much about the bigness of our common oyster; but flat and broad. It hangs on the rocks by a long string-beard, like a muscle. The pearl lies in the thickest part of it. Some have six or seven pearls in them. The Spaniards make several voyages to this Gulf of Nicoya , and to theUland California , for them. The Indians go down in seven or eight fathoms water, and bring up eight, ten, or twelve oysters at a time, while the men on board open them. The meat of this oyster is very green, and the oyster very fat: i have eat of this oyster several times, both boiled and stewed, and found them to be tolerably good. The great oyster grows to the rocks, as other oysters, not hanging to them by a beard, as the pearl-oyster: When they are opened, one part looks of a sine red, like a cherry, the other part is of a sine white : 1 have often eat of this sort of oyster, but it was for want of better victuals : They are so large, that one of them cut in pieces, and stewed, is sufficient for a meal for five or six men. The muscles here are so large, that one of them, when dressed, will suffice two men; and they are tolerable good victuals, when stewed with pepper and vinegar: And though it may be true, that, in pur own country, these would scarce go down ; yet it must be observes that our nicety in eating is pretty Vol: III. Y well
1/0 WILLIAM FUNNELL, 1 704. well conquered before any of these dishes come to our ^ cables. We failed from the Middle IJlands on September 23, and, on October 7th, we were in the latitude of 13 degrees, 7 minutes north, where we had sight of the two high mountains, commonly, though I think improperly, stiled the Volcanos of Gnatimala. The first of these, which is the highest, and affords a most beautiful prospect, lies on the north side of the city ; and, in the year 1534, threw out a torrent of water, which totally overwhelmed it, and occasioned the building of the new city at three leagues distance. The other mountain, which is properly a volcano, lies on the south ; and in the rainy seasons, from April to November, rages most terribly. It sometimes throws out stones as big as a house; and this, with such monstrous eruptions of flame, that, at the distance of six miles, in a dark night, you may fee to read a letter. We took, on the pth, a bark of about eighty tons in balast, bound for Rio Leja. She had a small quantity of provisions on board, which were very acceptable to us. This bark was commanded by one Captain Christian Martin , a Spaniard , born at the Canaries , but brought up in London-, he was servant formerly to Captain Eaton , and came with him into the South Seas in quality of his gunner ; but, falling out with the rum, ran away from them at the Island Gorgonia, where lie lay concealed six days, till the ship was gone ; after which he cut down two trees, which he drew to the vvater-side, and bound them together with twigs ; fixed a mast; and, of two shirts which he had with him, made a fail; and, having filled a large bag with oysters, which he made fast to the said two trees, he, rn the morning betimes, put off from the Island Gorgo~ nia ; and, in the next day in the afternoon, got into the river of Bonaventure, where he went ashore, and had but ill usage from the Spaniards, who sent him to Lima, where he was examined, cleared himself, and was sot at liberty. He spoke very good Englists, We were,
to MAGELLANICA, 171 -were, at this time, sixty-four men and boys, all in 1704. good health, and in extreme high spirits. On No- vember 23, we took a small bark, of sixty tons, from California , laden with plank, but having on board, likewise, several parrcels of pearl that had been fished upon that coast. On December 4th, we came into the Bay of Nativity, in which we took a new ship, of the burden of about sixty tons, laden with ammunition and military stores for the use of the Acapulco ship, for which we were cruising, and for the sight of which our people longed as earnestly, as if there had been no difference between seeing and taking her; neither was it long before they had their wish in one respect, though not in another. We took out of our prize as much of the ammunition as was left; for, when they perceived our design, the ship's company quitted her, having first thrown over-board the best part of their cargo, and left the rest scattered about in the utmost confusion. Being off the volcano of Colima , on December 6th, in the morning, we discovered a sail, and soon came up with her. This proved to be the great Manilla or Acapulcoi hip, which we had been so long wishing to meet with. As we were well-provided, we gave her a great many broadsides, before site could get any of her guns clear; for they did not suspect us to be an enemy, and were not at all prepared for us. Captain Martin , who was then a prisoner on board us, advised to lay her a- board immediately, while they were all in a hurry, and that this would be the only way to take her ; but if we gave them so much time, as to get out their great guns, they would certainly beat us to-pieces, and we should lose an opportunity of making ourselves masters of the value of sixteen millions of pieces of eight: And accordingly it happened ; for time being delayed in quarrelling between those of us that would lay her aboard, and those that would not, the enemy got out a tier of guns, and then were too hard for us so that we could not lie along her fide to do her any coniider- Y 2 able
172 WILLIAM FUNNELL, 1705. able damage ; for onr five pound shot, which was the v " y ~~' biggest we had, signified little against such a ship as she was ; but any of her shot, which were eighteen and twenty-four pounders, if they happened to strike us, our ship, being very much decayed, it would drive in a piece of plank of three or four feet: So being much damaged, and receiving a shot particularly from the enemy betwixt wind and water, in our powder-room, by which we had two feet of plank driven in on each side the stern, the signal was made to stand off from the enemy. Our design being thus disappointed, all our men grew discontented, and were for going home, knowing we would do no good in these parts, either for ourselves or owners, having provision but for three months, and that very short, and our ship being ready of herself to fall in pieces. Our captain desired our consent to cruize here six weeks longer, and then he would permit us to go for India, to some factory, where we might all dispose of ourselves as we should think most for our advantage. To this we all agreed, and accordingly cruized along shore to the eastward, in sight of the land ; and passed by several noted ports, as Acapulco , Pert Angels, Port Gua- tulco , and several others. We now intended to go in search of a proper place to water our ship and bark, for our proposed voyage to the Eaft-Indies ; and, after some consideration, we fixed upon the Gulf of Ama- ■palla for that purpose. January 5th, 1705, we met with such vast quantities of fish, that, in half an hour's time, we caught near threescore albicores, from sixty to ninety pounds weight each, besides vast quantities of other fish. The albicore is about four or five feet in length, weighing from 50 to 100, and 150 pounds weight: He hath e- leven fins on his back, one pretty large one, one middling one, and nine small yellow ones near the tail: He hath one large fin on one side near the gills, and twelve fins under his belly ; one on each fide underneath near the gills, one near the middle of the bel-
to MAGELLANIC A, &f<r. 173 ly, and nine small yellow fins extending to his tail. It 1705. js a very fleshy fish, having little or no bones, except the back-bone, and is extraordinary good: It is a prodigious strong fish when in the water: They prey mostly upon flying-fish, as do the dolphins and bone- toes. On the 6 th of this month, a new revolution happened in our affairs; for thirty of our men agreed with Captain Damfier , to remain with him in the South Seas, but with what view, or on what terms, remained to us, who were not of that number, an impenetrable secret. Our company consisted of thirty- three men ; and, notwithstanding what had happened, we failed together, according to our first resolution, for the Gulf of Amapalla , where we arrived, and anchored on the 26th. The very same day, all the provisions that were left were equally divided among us by the owners agent; and we had four pieces of cannon, with a proper proportion of lmall-arms and ammunition, assigned us for our defence in our voyage. The next care was to take in water; and, with this view, we landed on the island of Conchagua ; and, after some search, we found behind the hills a large bottom, in which was a large plantain-walk, and a great deal of rain-water that fell from the mountains. This was very inconvenient for us ; becauie, lying so behind the hills, we knew we must be forced to carry all our water over a high hill,-winch we could hardly climb by ourselves : But seeing there was no remedy, we first cut down the bustles, which were in our way, to make us a clear path after which, the hill being pretty steep on the land-side towards the bottom, wherein was the fresh water, we, with our axes and shovels, cut out steps in the hill; and our sail-maker having, in the mean time, made us a canvas-pipe of about ninety fathoms long, to carry our water from the top of the hill down to our cask, which lay at the foot of it, we •wr.';t to work to fill our water, each man having with him a six gallon cask. The water which we took up was very muddy ; and, on the top of it, grew duckweed.
i 7 4 WILLIAM FUNNELL,' 1705. weed, as it does usually in our ditches : At first: we raked the duck-weed away; but our doctor persuading us, that if we took up the weeds, they would mightily preserve our water, we, according to his advice, took up both weeds and water together. When each man had filled his six-gallon cask, he carried it up to the top of the hill, and then poured it into the canvas-pipe, which conveyed it down the hill into our cask. Thus we employed ourselves for four days; and, having filled about twenty-five tons, which we concluded would last longer than our victuals, and got it on board our vessel, the next day, being January 31, 1705, we all went aihore to the plantain-walk; and, haying cut down a sufficient quantity of them, we returned at night on board our vessel, intending to sail next day. This evening, two of our men, who had resolved to stay with Captain Dampier, left him, and came over ty us ; so that now we were thirty-five in number, viz. thfrty-four Englijh , and one little negro boy, whom we had taken from the Spaniards. During the time of our watering our bark, the men on board the ship, belonging to Captain Dampier , were busy in refitting their strip as well as they could: The carpenter stopped the fhot-holes, which they had in their powder-room, with tallow and charcoal, not daring, as he said, to drive in a nail, for fear of making it worse; and the four great guns, which usually stood between decks, were put down into the hold, there being sixteen besides, which was more than they had men to manage ; for there remained with them no more than twenty-eight men and boys, and most of them land men ; which was a very insignificant force, for one who was to make war on a whole nation. We left the Gulf of Amapalla on February j, and Captain Dampier, with his ship the St. George , at anchor in it. We steered out between the Gulf of Amapalla and the Island Mangera , and many times had not above two fathoms water. We had a fine gale of wind at north-feast, which loon carried us out of the mouth,
to MAGELLANIC A, ct?c. r yg mouth of the Gulf. So long as we had been in any 1705. of the harbours on this coast of Mexico , we had sel- '-' w dom been allowed any thing but flour, excepting that we used to go ashore, and found upon the rocks store of conchs, oysters, niufcels, snails, &c. of which we made many a good meal. But now, being in hopes of getting into a land of plenty, we bore hunger with more patience ; and, indeed, we had need of great patience ; for now our commons were lessened to half a- poundof course flour a man per day, with two ounces of salt meat every other day. Our vessel was a small bark, with two masts, of about seventy tons, which we had taken from the Spaniards ; but, whilst we lay here, she was so eaten by the worms, that she began to grow very leaky; and, to add to our afflictions, we had no carpenter ; neither, if any of us should fall sick, had we any doctor, or any medicines to make use of; and, which was worst of all, we had no boat to assist ourselves, if our vessel should fail us ; for the doctor, carpenter and boat, were left with Captain Damper : Yet, trusting to God's providence, who had already delivered us out of so many dangers, we proceeded on our intended voyage to India. A bolder attempt than this, all circumstances considered, was perhaps never made by such an handful of men ; and nothing but a desire of seeing our country, could have supported us under it. The very prospect of the difficulties that we were sure to go through, gave us spirits to provide against them ; and we held, on this occasion, a kind of council, in which we determined on two things ; the first was our course, and the latter was our allowance. We knew very well, that the wind we then had was only a land-wind; and that, by running one hundred leagues to sea, we should meet with the true trade-wind, blow - ing either north-east, or east-north-east. Our business was then to get into the latitude of 13 degrees north, which is that of the island of Guam , and then to bear away before the wind. It was on February rd, that we
176 WILLIAM FUNNELL, 1705. we determined these points. All that day, and most '-' w of the- night, was fine calm weather ; so that we caught abundance of yellow-tails, which were swimming a- bout our vessel. This fish is about four fee t in length, and has twenty fins on his back ; one middling one near the hinder-part of his head, one large one near the middle of his back, and eighteen small ones, stretching from the large one to his tail. He has two large fins near his gills, one on each side; and thirteen under his belly, viz. one middling one underneath the gills, one large one near the middle of his belly, which goes in with a dent, and eleven small ones, stretching from the large one to his tail, which is half-mooned : He has a very large head, a great eye, and is extraordinary good food. It is very flelhy, having no bone but the back-bone : These fish, when taken by us, looked very white, but the tips of their fins and tails were yellow ; and for this reason we called them Yellow-tails. They were very welcome to us; for, whilst they lasted, which was three days, we saved our provisions, feeding upon nothing else but this fish. On February 3d, the first part of the day, it was calm ; in which time, five or six turtles coming near the vessel, we caught two of them, which still served to help us, and save our sea-stores, which o- therwise had not been sufficient to keep us from perishing. On the evening of the same day, we had the land- wind at north-east, a fine brisk gale ; and therefore we took our departure from Mount St. Michael , in the Gulf of Ama-palla ; and continued our course southwest, and south-west-by-west, till we were in the latitude of 10 degrees; and then, finding we had the trade-wind, we bore away west-north-west, according to our former resolution. The next thing we did, was to make studding-sails out of our main-sail, and main-top-sail; we got our studding-sail up by daybreak every morning, and at sun-set hauled them down again; for it commonly blew so fresh in the
•so M A G"'E L L A N IC A. ffV. I yy the night, that we were forced to set our top-sail, and, 1705. with the rising of the surr the wind abated ; yet we ^ a!way8 had as much as we could well carryAvith our studding-sails. We continued, during our whole voyage, to adhere steadily to that rule of diet, which we had prescribed ourselves ; and of the slenderness of Which the reader will be a proper judge, when I enter a little into particulars. From the third to the last of February, we fed entirely upon plantains, making two meals a day, and allowing each man two plantains at a meal. We then had recourse to our flour, of which half a-pound a-day was allowed to each man, and every other day two ounces of fait beef or pork ; but the meat had been so long in fait, that, when we boiled it, it shrunk one half; and therefore we concluded, that it would be better to eat it raw, which we did, so Jong as it lasted, all the voyage after: But, in the beginning of the month of April, that began to fail, so that we were forced to have recourse to flour alone ; which, besides its being measured out to us in so scanty a proportion, as half a-poUnd to each man for a whole day, Was likewise very much spoiled, being full of maggots, spiders'; and other vermin ; so that nothing but the extremity of want cotild oblige us to eat it. It is, indeed, surprising to behold this strange change, and to perceive flour, that a few days before was white and fine, in a manner all alive, the maggots tumbling one over another. On strict inquiry, however, it seems, this change is produced by the eggs of spiders deposited amongst it; for, out of these, the maggots are bred, which fed voraciously on what afforded them a kind of nest, till such time as they became living creatures. It must be confessed, that words very faintly describe the miseries of such a life as this; but then it must be considered, that work makes the time pass away ; and that the hopes of accomplishing a very difficult voyage, keeps up mens spirits, and gets the better of their apprehensions of finking under it. Some little occasional assistances we met with in this long course, Vol. 111 . Z such
178 WILLIAM FUNNELL, 1705. such as sometimes catching a dolphin * at other times we saw many sea-birds, such as boobies, noddies, &c. which would come and settle upon our vessel, and happy was he that could catch one of them. In this manner we passed away about ten weeks; at the end of which we were in a very melancholy condition, and nothing but the hopes of speedily seeing land, could possibly have kept us from despairing; but, as this was daily expected, it took up all our thoughts, and calmed all our sorrows. April 10, We saw the clouds gather about the horizon much more than usual: This was a lure sign of land ; for it is common between the Tropics to be fog gy over the land, though it be never so clear at sea; therefore all this night we took care to look out, and on the 1 >th, in the morning betimes, we saw the island of Magcn , bearing weft, distant about ten leagues. It is an high woody island* and very plain arid green on the top: So we stood towards it; and, when we had brought it to bear north, distant about a mile, being so near, we laid our lhip by, and several fisliing-boats came to us, and brought us some fish, with eggs, yams, potatoes, &c. The men in those fisliing-boats were a very tall large-limbed people, of a tawny complexion, having long black hair reaching down to their middle. They all go stark-naked, not so much as covering their private parts. In exchange of what we had of them, we would have given them money ; but they looked on it, arid gave it us again, making signs to us to give them tobacco in the room of it; which we did, and they seemed very much pleased. We also gave them some old shirts, which they immediately tore in pieces, and rolled them round their heads. We would have given each of them a dram of brandy, but they were afraid to drink it : Only one of them, feeing us drink to each other, and that it did us no hurt* at last made signs, that he would drink with us: So we gave him a glassful, which he immediately drank off j but we thought the fellow would never sliut his mouth
to MAGELLANIC A. 179 mouth again ; for he was so amazed at the heat it had I 7 3 5 * left in his mouth, and in his belly, that, I believe, he W ' J thought he had set himself on fire. He laid himself down, and roared like a bull, which scared most of the rest of them away : After he had roared near half an hour, he fell fast asteep; and we, being in haste, put the poor fellow into his boat, and made signs to his consorts to take care of him, that he might not fall over-board. They seemed to be a very civil people ; but, however, we did not care to let too many os them come into our vessel at a time. When they first approached us, they tied two sticks together, in fashion of a cross, and held them up for us to fee ; which was, as we supposed, to signify to us, that they had some knowledge of the Christian religion : We, in return, showed them a crucifix, which we had taken from the Spaniards ; at the sight of which they all bowed their bodies, and came on board. This island of Magon , I conceive, lies in the latitude of 13 degrees north, and we made longitude from the mouth of St. Michael's, west, 120 degrees 9 minutes, or 7029 miles, allowing between 58 and 59 miles to a degree of longitude in this parallel. The boats that these fishermen came on board in, were about forty feet in length, and about seventeen or eighteen inches broad aloft, but not above three broad below : Their head and stern were alike : The bottom, to the water's edge, was one entire piece, but hollow ; upon which, for the side of the boat, was a piece of thin plank, about three feet broad, and of the fame length as the boat itself; It had its lower edge sewed with rattans to the bottom of the boat: They had two long poles put out of one side ; one was within ten feet of one end of the boar, and the other within ten feet of the other end, so that they lay distant from each other about 120 feet; the poles were about thirty feet in length; at the end of which was a long piece of plank, about twenty-one feet, of the fame shape, and about one fourth part of the bigness of the bottom of the boat: This
18 o WILLIAM FUKNELL, *705. This piece is laid across at the one end of the poles from the one pole to the other, where it is very securely made fast; and this, all together, is called the Outlayeror Outkaker. This is always the weather-side. and the use of it is to keep the boat from oversetting-, for, without the outleaker, the boat is so narrow, that it would not bear itself: They have but one fail, which is made of mat, and like our Bermudas fail ; it is not above two inches broad at top, and hauls out by a h Jom : When they have a mind to go about, it is only letting go the sheet of the fail, and hauling aft on the fame side, at the other end of the boat-, and then that which,was the stern before, becomes the head, any end going foremost, and no distinction, in the building of either end, but it is the fame side still that always remains the weather-side. The conveniency of these vessels are very great, and the contrivance of them exceedingly ingenious, so that we are able to build nothing like them. It was resolved, on mature deliberation, to bear a- way from hence for the coast of New-Guinea , without putting in to the island of Guam , of which we had fight. The weather continued fair, and the wind brisk, as well as favourable, till we arrived in the latitude of 4 degrees north ; and then we had a calm for no less than seven days ; in which space we had no way to relieve our hunger, but by drinking a good large draught of water, and then lying down to sleep'. On the zd of May, we had a fine gale, which continued to the 5th, when it died away before we saw any land. About ten in the evening, we were all sensible or a very odoriferous smell brought to us by the little air there was; from whence we concluded, that we could not be far distant from some land, whence this fragrant breeze must blow. Upon this, we began to search our chartjs, but to no manner of purpose ; for in none of them was there any land laid down. The next mortfing, however, we found our conjecture verified,
to MAGELLANICA. i8i rifled, and actually saw land at no great distance. The i 7 ° 5 " same day we caught two bonetocs, which were very w '"' welcome to us; tor they made a good meal for all our company. This filh is commonly about three feet in length, and two feet about; he hath two middling sins on his back, with eleven small ones, stretching to his tail, the like number opposite, under his belly, with two large ones, one on each side, near his gills a very sharp head, with a small mouth; a full eye, and an hals-mooned tail-, it is a very fleshy fish, having no b,qne but his baek-bone, and they make very good broth. About noon we were in sight of three small iflands, all of them low land, but exceedingly green and plpafant, affording a most delightful prospect from the sea, and especially to us, who had not seen land for so long a time. We had likewise an observation, by which we found, that we were in the latitude of 50 minutes north; and, as the eastermoft of those islands was four leagues to the south-east, it must be, consequently, in the latitude of 42 minutes north. As we were. cautious of venturing upon an unknown coast in the dark, we stood off' all night; and very well it was for us, that we did so ; for the next morning, being the 7th of May, about day-break, we found ourselves within a ship's length of a. great ledge of rocks, which ran from one island to the other, which we not seeing before, and thinking to go between the two iflands, had like to have been upon them : But, through God's mercy, a small breeze of wind coming from the shore, we got off', and stood to the wester- molt island, because we saw many socles lying off the rest of them. The rocks we were like to have been upon were near the northermost island, which, upon account of our miraculous escape, we called the Island of Deceit. When we came near the westermost island, which was the biggest of the three, we stood in for the island ; and, as we drew nearer, about forty or fifty of their flying-prows came off, and in them might be about 450 men, allowing ten to each prow; and we
18 2 WILLIAM" FUNNELL, 1705. we could discern multitudes of people upon the shore ; for, as we passed by any of these isles to go to the next, the people also followed us ; their flying-prows lay at a distance from us, and viewed us, till we beckoned, and made signs for them to come to us; then one of them, which was in the midst, advanced towards us, and, being pretty near, lay and looked on us for a while. We still made signs for him to draw nearer; then he came within a ship's length of us, and lay still again. In her were ten men, all naked, and, in the midst of them, a grave old man, of a pleasant countenance, who had on his head a four-corner'd cap, without a crown, but otherwise he was quite naked, as were all the rest of them. This man, by the respect all the rest in the boat showed to him, we guessed to be a King or Prince. At their approach to us they fung a song, which continued about a quarter of an hour: We could not understand it, but it was tuned very prettily : When this song was done, they came ' almost close to our vessel's side, and then fung another song. This was begun by the grave old man, and followed by all the rest in the boat; which done, thev put themselves in a posture of praying, and made several bows and cringes towards us, after the manner of their country; then one of the men in the boat, having a very sore leg, held it up to us, and pointed to the wound. By the signs he made to us, we understood, that he would have us to cure it ; for we being white, and they having probably never seen a- ny white men before, they seemed as if they did not think us to be mortal men. After this, we poured some water out of a bucket into a glass, and, pointing to our mouths, made signs that we wanted victuals and drink : Then they shook their heads, in way of denial, as I suppose ; but, seeing us still make towards the iiland, one of the men in the boat blew au horn ; at the sound of which, all the rest of the boats made boldly to us: Upon this, we all believing they would
to MAGELLANIC A; 183 would be aboard of us, fired a musquet over them, 1 7 °S- not designing to harm, but only to frighten them ; ac'^ vW the noise of which they seemed wonderfully amazed, and drew back, menacing us ac a distance with their paddles, and still following us. So seeing, as I said before, many hundreds of them upon the shore, and finding we could have nothing from them but by force, and having no anchors or cables by which we dared trust our bark, and, besides, having no boat to go a- shore in, so that stiould we swim alhore, as some of our men proposed, yet we could not carry our arms with us, and the Indians might knock us on the head with stones whilst we were in the water. We concluded there was no good to be done here : Wherefore, examining our water, and finding sufficient for eighteen days, at a quart of water each man per day, we resolved to leave these islands, and to trust to God's providence to guide us to a more friendly place, where we might supply our wants, not doubting but we should furnish ourselves with water at some island or other, in a place where there were so many : So we left the said islands, and called the westermost of them the island of Disappointment, because we made certain accounts of getting some water here, but could not. They were all three low, flat, even islands, full of several sorts of trees, all very green and flourishing; and, no doubt, if we had had a boat, we might have met with something which would have been beneficial to ourselves, and of advantage to our country, as we might also at several other small islands, which we afterwards pasted by. The inhabitants of most of these islands were a very large strong-boned people. They had long, black, strait hair, which reached down to their middle ; and they all go stark-naked, not so much as covering their privy parts. I think I never saw such a parcel of stout-limbed fellows together in my life. It is certain, therefore, that the islands hereabouts
i"4 WILLIAM FUNNELL, 1705- abouts are abundantly peopled, though they are ut- terly averse to any communication with whites, pcr- haps from a notion, that all whites are Spaniards-, and yet it is not altogether clear, that even the Spaniards ever attempted making a settlement in any of these islands. When we left these islands, we had a fresh gale of wind at east; and, steering south-west, we met continually with weeds and grafs in the water: Which inclined us to believe, that we were not far from land; and yet, on founding, we had no ground at an hundred fathoms. On the eighth of May, early in the morning, we discerned the coast of N ?w -Guinea ; from which we were then distant eighteen or nineteen leagues. The sight of land engaged us to think of building a boat with a few old boards, and such other materials as we had, though they did not seem altogether sit for that purpose; which boat, when completed, though it was not the strongest or most beautiful thing in the world, yet proved exceeding useful and convenient. On the 9th, we had very bad weather, the wind shifting all round the compass. We had time enough to consider this part of New-Guinea with much attention ; the land appeared very mountainous; black, and rocky, without harbour, bay, or road* where we might anchor safely. The mountains were so bleak and barren, the valleys so narrow and deep; that we, at first fight, conceived the country uninhabited ; nor did our future acquaintance engage us to change our opinion, since we saw no inhabitants, Or signs of inhabitants. The fame day we passed by two small islands, each of which might be a league in length ; they were low, but very well clothed with small green trees. We saw, at the fame time, part of the great island of Gillolo, at eight leagues distance, and kept on our course west-fouth-west, intending to pass through that island, and the continent of into the Eajl-India sea. We had very bad weather till
to MAGELLANICA. *$5 the eleventh, and, the night being very dark, we miff- >?oj. ed the common passage, and found ourselves in the morning among many small islands; when, perceiving we had overshot the passage, and the wind being at east, we resolved to look out for a passage to the south- . ward, amongst those islands: Accordingly we stood to the southward, but found a great many rocks and sholes, which stretched from one island to another : At night, there being little wind, and not daring to venture further amongst those unfrequented islands and sholes, we resolved to lie by, intending, in the morning, if the winds should prove westerly, to return back, and go through the common passage-, but, if jt still continued easterly, then to endeavour to find out a new passage to the westward. This night we saw two or three fires, which were made on shore by the inhabitants. The islands here were most of them of a good height, and pretty well cloathed with several forts of trees, which all appeared very green and flourishing. On the 12th, we had fair weather, with a fine fresh gale at north-east : So we proceeded to the westward, and, at the same time, had a strong tide setting to the westward. About eight this morsting, we shot between two high headlands, which were distant from each other near two mile?. Upon this, some of us went to the top-mast head, to look if we had a clear passage through ; and we saw no hindrance: So we got through by two in the afternoon. It was in length about seven leagues, and about two miles broad. In it we could find no anchorage, till within a stop's length of the shore, and then we had thirty fathoms water. The land here was of an indifferent height, and very woody. At noon, the tide setting back to the eastward, and it being calm,, we drove, by five in the evening, half-way back again, and drove with our vessel so near the snore, that we kept her off with our poles; and might have stepped from our bark to the snore, and yet our vessel never touched the ground, the water being very deep close to the shore. Vol. III. A a Not
186 WILLIAM FUNNELL, *705* Not long after, a strong gale springing up again byseveq '^ J in the evening, we got clear of this Strait the second time; and then it fell calm again, and we drove with the tide, which still set to the westward. In this Strait we saw a dying-prow under sail, but it did not come near us. We also, in some of the small bays, saw several old houses, some standing, and some half down, but could not see any inhabitants. On the 13th, we had little wind at east-south-east, and sometimes calm ; but, when we had any wind, we steered away south-by- west. Here we saw a great many islands to the southward of us, but none of them so near together but that there was room to pass between them, and scarce any ground to be found with one hundred fathoms of line. We still found we got but very little, the tides setting sometimes to the southward, and then again to the northward; so that we were not got yet above a league to the southward of the said Strait, which we, after the name of our bark, called St. John's, Straits ; and, I believe, we were the first Europeans, that ever passed it. At this time a large Indian prow came on board us, in which was a freeman of Amboyna. We acquainted him with our great want of victuals, having had nothing for a long time to eat but flour and water, and so little of that as would hardly keep us alive. He told us, if we would go to the island of Manipa , which was then in sight, he would be our pilot, and carry us in, where he did not doubt but we might have rice e~ nough for our money to carry us to Batavia. Accordingly we steered directly for Manipa , and, in our way, passed by the Island Keylan , which is a small, but high island, very well inhabited, and clothed with several sorts of trees. Its chief produce is rice, and some few cloves ; and here was a Dutch corporal, with fix soldiers, whose only business it was to fee all the clove-trees cut down and destroyed. From hence we proceeded to Manipa , where we arrived about twelve at night, and came to an anchor in a small bay at the north-
to MAGELLANICA, &c. 187 north-west end of the island: Then our Dutch pilot 1705. sent two men ashore with a letter to the governour, to v ' v '-' acquaint him with our wants. On the 23d, betimes in the morning, a Dutch corporal, with two soldiers, came on board, and read to us an order which he had from the Dutch East-India company; That if any ships, except those belonging to the Dutch Eafl-India company, anchored there, they were not to supply them with any thing. We told him, it was for want of victuals that we were forced to put in here-, and that, if we could have subsisted, we should not have touched at any place till our arrival at Batavia: Wherefore we desired him to go ashore again, and inform the governour of our wants. He, seeing us in a very weak condition, promised he would, and that he would bring us word again : Accordingly he went ashore, and, at four in the evening, returned again, and brought us word, That we should have no provision there but, if we would go to Ambayna , there we might be supplied. So we were forced to leave this unfriendly place, and endeavour, if the wind would permit, to go to Ambayna. This island of Manifa is in length, louth-east and north-west, about fifteen miles, in breadth about eight, and lies in the latitude of 3 degrees 25 minutes south, and westward of the Island Bonoa about twenty miles. It is a remarkably high island, and pretty well inhabited by the Malayans , as are all the Molucca Islands It is stiole almost all round-, which tholes, some of them, stretch a league and an half off the shore : Wherefore, unless a man be acquainted, or has good draughts of the place, it is dangerous coming near it. The island is of a good height, but not so high as the Island Keylan besore-mentioned : On it are several good springs of fresh-water; and, on the south-west side of the island, the Dutch have a small fort of six guns. The island is governed by a Dutch serjeant, three corporals, and a master-gunner, and they have under them twenty Dutch soldiers. On this island grows vast plenty of A a 2 cloves
188 WILLIAM FUNNELL, j'70 j. cloves and rice, of which they fend great Quantities id Amboym. The inhabitants are most of them fishermen. They catch abundance of fish here, not only for their own use, but also to supply Amboyna. We stood to the south westward, having the wind at south-fouth-east; and, it blowing fresh, we reefed our top fails, and went away under our courses. We were now quire out of heart; for we did not expect to reach Amboyna , the south-east monsoons being let in, which wind was right against us ; and besides, it blew lo hard, that we could scarce carry any sail ; and we could not think of getting to Saiavia , because we had not victuals to carry us thither; and, besides, as the wind was, we could not weather the shoals, which lie to the east-south-east to the Isiand of Bouton : So that, being almost in despair, and the wind continuing, we kept our course to the southward, till we came over- against the Isiand B&uro ; and then, the wind veering to the south-south-west, we stood away south-east: But, finding a strong current setting to leeward, so that we rather lost than got ground-, and seeing no likelihood of getting to Amboyna,, we, by general consent, shared all that was eatable on board our vessel; and the whole of what each man's share amounted to was six pounds and three quarters of flour, with five pounds ■of bran and every one designed to be as sparing of his part as he could. On the 25th, the wind veering about to the south-fouth-east, we tacked, and stood to the south-west; and soon weathered the I stand of Am- bloxv., which is a small isiand, not above three leagues in length. It is of an indifferent height, and lies in the latitude of 4 degrees, 5 minutes south. It is pretty well furnished with trees of several sorts ; but not inhabited : Neither do 1 know, whether there be any frefo water upon it. From hence we continued our course till twelve at night, when an hard gale of wind coming down upon us, before (through weakness) we could handle our fails, it almost overset our vessel. It split our main-sail and main-topsail all to pieces, broke our
to MAG EL LA NIC A, &c. 18$ our tnain-stay, and two of our fore-shrouds. As soon 1705. as the squall was over, it fell calm and then we had so great a sea, occasioned, as I believe, by the meeting of several currents, that, we thought, our bark could riot hold it out, the laboured so much ; and the sea took us so on all sides, that we were almost covered with water. On the 2Oth, it sprung up a fine fresti gale at south-east: Whereupon, knowing we could not weather the shoals, we tacked, and stood away •north-east for the Isiandof Amboyna. On the 27th, the wind continuing, we held the same courie; and, on the 28th, early in the morning, saw the Island of ■Amboyna , bearing due north, distant about six leagues: So we stood away directly for the island, and, by noon, came just off the harbour; a joyful sight to us then 1 though we had, soon after, cause to look upon it as the worst sight we had ever seen : So frail are the hopes of man, and so apt are we to desire what leads to our own destruction ! As we entered the harbour of Amboyna , we met with two ships coming out, laden with cloves, and bound for Batavia. The captain of one of these ships came on board us, desired to know whence we came, whither bound, and a journal of our voyage, promising tp return it, when he should meet us at Batavia. We gave him the best answer we could to all his demands; and our owners agent gave him a succinct relation eft' our voyage; which was a very happy accident, since to it we owed our preservation, as will be shewn hereafter. That night we stood in to the harbour; and, the next morning, which, according to our account, was Tuesday, but with them Wednesday, two Dutch orambies (for so they call the vessels which they use there) came on board us, each rowed, or rather paddled, by forty me. In these vessels came the fiscal, secretary, several Dutch gentlemen; and about eighty soldiers, who took possession of our bark. They also went down and sealed up all our chests ; and the two orambies towed us in ; and, by noon, we got up as high as
X9Q WILLIAM FUNNELL, 1705. as the town, where they moored our vessel in the comr- mon anchoring-place. Here we continued till the 31st, not knowing how they designed to dispose of us> in which time they would not afford us any victuals, though we offered them a crown for a pound of beefy Pork, or bread. In the evening, we were all sent on shore, where they had provided two rooms for our reception, near the Stadthouse ; and our bark, money, and goods, except what we had about us, were all taken from us: And, soon after, our vessel and goods were fold at a public outcry. We were fed with very bad meat, which we, who had been at short allowance so long, and our stomachs very weak, could ill digest : and, if we would have better, we must buy it with our own money. Several of us happened to have some money about us, and, as long as that lasted, we bought our own victuals of our keeper for a Spanish dollar, which was sive stiillings and a penny value, though he would give us no more than five Dutch shillings, to the value of about half a Crown ; and, for this half-crown we could have no more victuals than we could have bought for sive-pence, if we had been at liberty to go into the town ; so that, instead of having five shillings for our Spanijh dollar, we had indeed no more than five pence. It cannot be expected, that, after such hard usage as this, I should be extremely fond of the Dutch government at Amboyna. However, the leisure I had, and the several opportunities that offered, of inquiring into the present condition of the place, led me to frame a pretty large, and, I will be bold to fay, just account of that island, and all its inhabitants. This, I flatter myself, will be the more acceptable to the public, because of the care taken by the Dutch to stifle all descriptions of this place, even by their own people , so that I never heard of any lately printed : And this conduct of theirs is founded on a maxim of the Eaft-India Company, viz. that the best way to preserve their trade in thole parts, and particularly their monopoly of spices, is to contrive
to MAGELLANICA. 191 trive every possible method for deterring other nations 1705. from sending ships into that part of the world, and to use such as straggle thither in such a manner, as to fright their countrymen effectually from following their example. This Island of Amboyna , so famous, or rather infamous, for the cruelties that were formerly committed there by the Dutch upon the Englijb, is in length from north-east to south-west, twelve leagues. It is high and mountainous. The hills are, in a great measure, barren : but the valleys are very fruitful. The foil is black, and the surface affords saltpetre. The middle of the island lies in the latitude of about 3 degrees, 4 minutes south. It is inhabited by Malayans , who are the original natives. They are of a middle stature, and tawny ■, but the women are of a brighter tawny than the men, and have long black hair, which reaches down to the calves of their legs. They have round faces, small mouths, noses, and lips. They wear a linen waistcoat, which reaches no farther than the lower part of their breasts-, and about their middle they wear a piece of death, about four yards wide, and a yard deep. This they roll round them, and it serves them instead of a petticoat; for none are allowed to wear petticoats but the Dutch women only : Neither are any of the Molayan men allowed to wear an hat, excepting only their King. Although the Malayans are the most numerous, yet the Dutch are possessed of all the sea-coast, and have here a sarong castle, built of stone, and mounted with 60 guns, besides several other small fortifications in other parts of the island. Near this castle is a small town, of about an hundred Dutch houses, all strongly built of stone, brick, and timber ; but all very low, none exceeding one story, because of earthquakes, to which this place is very subject so that, should they be built higher, it would endanger the falling of them, as they often do, notwithstanding they are so low. Whilst we were here, we had a great earthquake, which continued two days, in which time it
i 9 2 WILLIAM FUNNELL, 1705. it did a great deal of mischief; for the ground burst W ' J open in several places, and swallowed up several houses, and whole families. Several of the people wijre dug out again, but most of them dead ; and many of them had their legs or, arms broken by the falls of houses. The castle-wal-ls were rent asunder in several places, and we thought, that it, and all the houses, would have fallen down. The ground, where we were, swelled like a wave of the sea ; but near us .we had no hurt done. As'to the Dutch policy in the istand, it is governed by a council, which consists of five persons, viz. the governour, the chief merchant (or upper Koop-man), the Malayan King, the Captain of the fort, and the Fiscal, who is in the nature of a judge. Upon the island are said to be about 350 Dutch soldiers, with 120 or 130 Dutch freemen and petty officers, and near as many of the Chinese , who live here for the advantage of trade, although they are not allowed to trade in spice, that being a peculiar trade, which the Dutch Company reserve to themselves; so that, I reckon, they can make in all about 550 fighting men, Dutch and Chinese. As to the Malayans , they would be but of little service to them, but rather be glad to assist any body against them. The Malayan women are said to be great whores, of which they are not ashamed. They are soon ripe, and often married by nine years of age ; and many of them are said to have have children at ten or eleven. All near the water-side are forced to be under the Dutch government, which is very absolute and tyrannical: For any small fault they are severely handled ; and many think themselves well off, if they are not made slaves, and wear an iron upon their leg during life : Those, 1 say, who dwell near the sea-lide, are all subject to the Dutch government, and are Christians ; but those within the country, who are called the Hill-Malayans , are Mahometans. They are always at war with the Dutch ; and, if they take any of them prisoners at any time, they .never give him any quarter; but, after they have kept him in prison five
to MAG EL LAN I CA, fc?c. 19 five days, without either victuals or drink, they bring 1 7 ° 5* him out, and, first of all, rip up his breast with a Iharp knife, and take out his heart, at which there is great rejoicing of all the Malayans that are present. Then they. cut off his head, and embalm it with spice to keep; and they who can stow most of those heads, are accounted the most honourable, and value themselves much upon it. The dead body is left exposed to the ravenous birds of prey to feed on. The Dutch , to retaliate this usage, when they take any of these Malayans, load them with many irons, and lay them in prison, where they lie for some time; after which they cutoff their noses and ears, and then they arc lent to prison again, where they continue some further time; after which they are brought out the second and last time, and then they rack them till they die. As for I hose under their government, if they are found guilty of thieving, they often cut off their noses and ears, and put a great iron chain about their leagues, and so make them staves during life. There were near 500 of those poor wretches, who were in continual slavery whilst we were here; and they always take care to keep them employed, some in sawing of timber, cithers in cutting ot stone, some in carrying burdens, and other labour. At fun-riling every morning, they are let out of the prison in which they are kept, the men in one, and the women in another, and are immediately sent to work, where they continue till twelve St noon ; at which time they return back, and have an hour's time to dine. Their dinner is always the fame, being a pint of coarse rice boiled for each man. At one they are sent to work again, where they continue till fix in the evening ; at which time they are brought back, and go to supper, which is always the fame, both in quantity and quality, with their dinner. Soon after they have supped, they are put into their lodgings, and locked in, where they lie upon the bare boards, and have seldom any thing but a large piece of wood, which commonly serves rive or six of them, Vol. III. ' B 1? for en
194 - WILLIAM FUNNEL L, 1705. ^ or a pillow. Sometimes; these poor wretches make shift to escape; but, if they are caught again, they are lure to be severely handled. T here was one of these poor slaves, a woman, who had been harshly used by the Dutch ; and having once made her escape, and being taken again, he, knowing hovy cruelly she should be used, cut her own throat the day before her appointed punishment-, after which she was, by the hair, dragged out of the prison, ail round the town, and then hung upon a gibbet by her feet, with her head downwards; which is the common punishment of any that are guilty of self-murder. Such as are in debt, and cannot satisfy their creditors, are, by them, turned over to thecompany, who fend them tp work among their slaves. They have nothing allowed them but - rice and water, as the other Haves; only they have twopence a day allowed them towards the payment of their debts, which avails but little ; so that it is very seldom, if ever, that any one gets abroad, till he is carried out dead. But though the poor natives are thus severely handled, yet th c Dutch themselves will wink at each other's faults; so that it is a great rarity for any of them to be punished, unless it be for murder. In any other cafe, a small matter of money will buy off a great fault. The women, that are slaves to the freemen, have all the liberty that may be from their masters and mistresses only they are' obliged every night to bring them. a certain acknowledgement, which is commonly about sixpence, and to si nd their own victuals, clpaths, &c. in default of which, they are se- verelv used. They may whore and steal, and all is well, if the daily acknowledgement be but brought, and no complaint be made against them. The chief of this island's products are cloves, ginger, pepper, rattans, canes, and some few nutmegs. The clove-tree is not of a very great body, but rather slender. It is in height, from twelve to thirty or forty feet. The branches are small; the leaves about five inches long, and two broad, and end tapering. One of these leaves, rubbed, between
to MAGELLANIC A, &c. 195 between the fingers, will smell very strong of cloves; 1705. but, without rubbing, they have no smell at all. The cloves grow out at the tip of the branches, ten, twelve, or fourteen in a cluster. They are first white, then green, then of a dark copper-colour, which is the time of their being ripe. The manner of gathering, is to spread clothes or streets round the bottom of the tree for a good distance ; then they sliake the tree, and all the cloves that are thoroughly ripe, arid fit to be gathered, fall down. The rest, which are left upon the tree, they suffer to remain for about fix or seven days; then they shake as many more of them off as are ripe, and will fall. This they do four or five times, till they are all down. The usual time of gathering us them is October and February. Those which are ripe in October are called the winter-clove, this being the end of their winter ; and they are not accounted so good ot strong as the other. These they commonly preserve, and put in small jars of about a quart, of which they transport great quantities to several parts of the world. Those which ave ripe in February, are called the fummer- clove. These are esteemed much better and stronger than the former, because they have the best part of the summer to ripen in ; whereas the former have not above a month's fair weather, and all the rest is rainy and cloudy ; so that the rays of the fun cannot come to them. It is the common received opinion, that cloves, nutmegs, mace, and cinnamon, grow all upon one tree ; but it is a great mistake. These trees commonly bear sixty, seventy, or eighty pounds weight at a time; and, every six years, they are sure of a double crop. There is a vast number of those trees upon this island, which are very carefully looked after, and a register kept of them in the Company's books. They are n timbered once a year ; and beyond a certain number they will not let them increase, but cut them down and destroy them, for fear of lessening the price. All these trees belong to the Dutch Company, or their freemen ; but thol'9 that belong to
i?6 WILLIAM FUNNELL, 170;, the freemen, the Company sets them an allowance as to their number; and, if any one brings up more than what the Company allows of, he is severely fined, and his trees forfeited ; and whatsoever cloves the trees belonging to freemen produce, the freemen are obliged to fell to the Company, after the rate of sixpence a pound : So that, properly, all the cloves in the isiand are ingroffed into the Company's hands. And, if any freeman, or other, fells, or conveys away to the value often pounds, all that he has in the world is forfeited to the Company, and he becomes a slave during life. The inhabitants used formerly to cheat the Dutch , in the sale of their cloves ; for it was common with them to put their doves in a large sheet, which they hung up by the four corners, under the deling of their house; and upon the floor, immediately under the cloves, they set a large tub of fresh water, which the cloves, being very dry, and of an hot nature, would, by degrees, draw up, and make a large addition to their weight, without being easily perceived. But now the Dutch are grown too cunning for them ; for they always try them, by giving them a small Blip with their finger on the head ; and then, if the clove be thoroughly ripe, and no deceit has been used, the head will break aiunder, like a piece of thin brittle glass; but, if it has been watered, then the clove will be tough, and the whole clove will sooner bend, than the head fly off. These are some few nutmegs upon this island, the trees of which are much like the peach ■ but they grow mostly at the Island Banda , from whence two or three ships loads are exported every year. The fruit of this tree consists of four parts r The first and outward rind is like that of a green walnut; the second is dry and thin, which we call Mace; the third is a tough, thin shell, like that of a chefnut; and the fourth is the kernel, included in the said shell, which we call Nutmeg. There are said to be upon- this isiand some mines of gold. One of the Malayans shewed me some of
TO M AGELL ANICA, 6 -c. 197 ot the ore, which, he told me, was taken out of them;i7°j but this was a great crime, and, if the Dutch should know it, he said, he should be severely punished; for this is an extraordinary secret, which, as much as they can, they keep from all Europeans. Although, as I said before, they can raise about five hundred and fifty fighting men, upon occasion, in this island -, yet once every year they are forced to spare a great many of their people, which are sent away upon Other business-, for, commonly, on the 20th of October, each year, eight Or ten days sooner or later, the governour of this place goes his progress, attended with about feventy-five o- rambies, some with a 100, some So, some 50, and some 40 paddles a-piece, in each of which go two Dutch soldiers. I reckon there may be in this whole fleet, of Dutch , about 150, or 160, and about 5250 Malayans , reckoning 70 Malayans to each oramby, one with another. These 75 orambies are divided into three squadrons, the first consisting of 20 orambies; which squadron is always commanded by one of the council, who carries a yellow flag. The rear consists of 20 more, and is commanded by the fiscal, who commonly carries a red flag: The rest are in the middle squadron, and attend the governour, who hath twelve Dutch soldiers, a corporal and a serjeant, for his bodyguard, and carries a blue flag. The governour carries with him the Indian King, and all their princes, for fear they should rebel in his absence. In this order they go and victual the eastern islands, but especially those that do, or are capable of producing cloves or nutmegs-, and, at every island they go to, they have an additional strength. The time of their cruising in this manner is commonly six weeks, during which they cut down, burn, and destroy all the clove and nutmeg trees they can find, except such as are reserved for the Company's use; for all, or most of these islands do, or would produce cloves ; but they will not suffer them, because they have enough to supply all Europe at Amboyna alone; and even there also, as I said before, they wist
ty8 WILLIAM FUNNELL, 1705. will permit but a certain number, lest too great plenty of them should lower the price. Upon all these islands the Dutch Company keep soldiers, three, six, nine, or twelve, according as they are in bigness, whose only business it is to see the trees cut down, or, at least, to take care that they do not increase ; for they are very jealous, lest the English or French should serve them such a trick as they themselves served the English at Amboyna. During the time of their cruising, they gather tribute from all the petty Kings and Princes of these islands; and commonly, at about the end of six weeks, return again. Of beasts, here are beeves, hogs, wild deer, &V. Of fowls, here are several forts, the crocadore, the cassawaris, the bird of paradise, &c. The crocadore is a bird of various sizes, some being as big as hens, and others no bigger than pigeons : They are in all parts exactly alike; their feathers are all over white, excepting only a bunch upon their head, which is always either yellow or red. The bunch of feathers lies so close, fitted into a dent in the head, that they cannot be perceived, unless when the bird is frighted, and then he sets it up on end, and it spreads open like a fan. The siesta and legs of this bird are very black, and they smell very sweet. When they fly wild up and down the woods, they cry Crocadore, Crocadore: for which reason they go by that name. The cassa- waris is about the bigness of a large Virginia turkey; his head is the fame as a turkey's, and he has a long, stiff, hairy beard upon his breast before, like a turkey -, he has two great legs, almost as thick as a man's wrist, with five great claws upon each foot; he has an high round back, and, instead of feathers, only long hairs, and the fame upon the pinions of his wings. It lays an egg so big, that it will hold a pint; the shell is pretty thick, spotted with green and white, and looks exactly like China-ware. 1 never tasted the eggs, but the bird itself is extraordinary good victuals, as I have tried several times. It tastes very like a turkey, but' much stronger. The birds of paradise are about-
*99 to MAGELLANIC A, &c. about the bigness of pigeons -, they are of various co- J7°5' lours, and are never found or seen alive, neither is it known from whence they come. I have seen several of them here embalmed with spice, which preserves them from decay; and, so embalmed, they are sent as rarities to several parts of the world. It is related of these birds, that when the nutmegs are ripe, which is in the months of February and March, they resort to the places where they grow, viz. to Banda and this island, and eat of the outer rind of the nut: After which they fall down dead drunk, and an innumerable company of ants gather about them, feed upon them, and kill them. Of fisli, here are also several sorts ; but the moll noted is the sea porcupine : It is in length a- bout three feet, and two feet and an half round. It has a very large eye, with two fins on his back, and one large one on each fide, near his gills. It is very full of sharp-pointed quills : and, from thence, is called the Sea Porcupine. This Island of Amboyna is all over sandy, but the water is so deep, that there is no anchoring near it, but at the Ley (which is at the west: end of the island) in forty fathoms water, close to the shore, and in the common harbour. This harbour runs up a great way into the island, and almost divides it into two, so that they are, in a manner, two islands, being only joined by a small neck of land, so narrow, that the Malayans often haul their canoes over. At the entrance into the harbour on the east-fide, there is a small fortification of about fix guns and, close to it, is twenty fathoms water; and, about a league farther up, is the harbour for ships, where they lie under the command of their great castle-, which, ever since the massacre of the Englijh , has been called the Castle ViSlorta. About two miles further to the north-east, within the harbour, is the place where formerly our Englijh factory was settled -, and near it is said to be the hole into which the Englijh were thrown, after they had been massacred by the Dutch. There were few of us now here but expected the fame fate.- and some of the inhabitants
2QP WILLIAM FUNNELL, 1705.. habitants were no way (hy to tell us, that the journal, which was sent in the Dutch ships that we met going put from hence to Batavia, was oqr protection; for they were sensible, that, upon those ships arrival at Bntavia, it would be presently known that a part of Captain Dampier' s company was arrived at Amboyna, and from thence it would spread all over India ; and so they knew, if we fared otherwise than well, we should be inquired after. A little to the eastward of this bland are several other small islands; the most noted and biggest of which are Boangbesfay and Htnomsa ; they lie'east from Amboym at a small distance : They are of an indifferent height, and not above a third part so big as the Island of Amboyna. They are both pretty well fortified, and produce store of cloves, but the Chinese place for nutmegs is the Island of Banda, which also belongs to the Dutch. It lies in the latitude of 40 degrees, 20 minutes south, and bears from Amboym east-south-east, distance twenty-eight leagues. The island is said to be in form of a man's foot and leg, and to be pretty well fortified; and, it has the same reputation for nutmegs as Amboyna for cloves: The Go- vernour of Amboym is reckoned the qhief governour of all those spice-iflands, even to Ternate and Tidore, which are also spice-islands, in possession of the Dutch, and lip about forty miles to the northward of the Equator. Whilst we were at this Island of Amboyna , we were so troubled with mosquitoes (which are a sort of gnats) that every night we were forced to put ourselves in a bag before we could go to sleep; for otherwise those creatures would so bite us, that there was no getting rest -, and wherever they bit, they commonly raised a red blister, almost as broad as a silver penny, itching very much; and many cannot forbear scratching themselves so as to cause inflammations, which sometimes occasion the loss of a limb. During our stay here, we had the liberty of a broad paved yard, about sixty yards square; but they would by no means let us go out into the toWn, being very jealous of us, and desirous to prevent
20 1 to MAGELLANICA, &e. prevent our knowing their strength, or making any 1704. other discoveries, which they thought might be pre- W ' J judicial to them. Here we remained from May 31st, to September 14th, 1705, at which time there being three of the Company's stoops ready to fail hence, laden with cloves, twenty-stve of our men were sent a- way with them to Batavia , and ten of us left behind, who were, as they said, to go in another vessel, which was almost ready to fail. On September-2yth, a Malayan man was brought in here at Amboyna to the Stadt- houfe, to be tried for his life : He was accused, by his own wife, for murdering his stave: The stave had been dead about six months, and she had concealed it; but, happening to fall out with her husband, she went before the Fiscal, in the heat of her anger, and declared it: So her husband was put in prison, and the corpse of the dead stave dug up ; but, it being consumed and rotten, no marks of violence could be perceived upon it; and it was generally believed, that the man's wife accused him wrongfully : He was upon his trial when the earthquake happened, at which time, I observed, that it is a common errour to suppose, that, during an earthquake it is always calm ; for, we had a fine frelh gale at louth-south-west, both days on which the earthquake happened. This earthquake mafie all the court break up, being in fear the house should fall on ?heir heads : So the man was committed to prison again ; and, the next day, being September 28th, a- bouteleven before noon, the court being set again, the man was again brought to his trial* when, in about a quarter of an hour, when his wife was in her greatest violence against him, the earth sltook very much again, - and caused them all to break up a second time. The fame day myself, with four more of our men, were sent on board a Ctiinese sloop for Batavia : The other five of our men which were left behind, they promised should be sent after us in a short time yet we never heard of them since : But whether they languished out their days in confinement, found some quicker period Vot. 111 . C c to
202 WILLIAM FUNNELL, 1705- to their miseries, or were detained in the Dutch service ^ rJ during life, are points that will not be speedily cleared up, since our government has never thought fit to inquire after, or demand them. After we had left Amboyna , we sailed south-west by west, till we came to the. island of Lancas, which lie? in the latitude of y degrees, 27 minutes south ; and I make its meridian distance from Amboyna % degrees, 35 minutes west, or 155 miles. We then steered west by north, till we made the two Islands Cabefes ; where, it falling calm, we sent our boat ashore on the eastermost, and cut down some hundreds of cocoa-nuts, which were brought on board. This eastern island of Cabefes is low, not inhabited, but full of cocoa-nut- trees, which are planted here for the use of such Dutch ships and vessels as pass by for Batavio .; for it is a sort of miracle, to fee any European ship here except the Dutch. Off this island we met our bark, which had brought us from America to Amboyna\ the Dutch , after they had taken her from us, had fitted her up, put a mizen-mast in, and made a very good vessel of her. This island lies in the latitude of 5 degrees, 23 minutes south, and nearly west-by-north from the Island Lancas , distant about forty-five miles; it is shoal two miles from the shore. To the south-west of this island lies the other Island of Cabefes , which is a pretty high island, and upon it the Dutch always keep a corporal and six soldiers, who, two or three times a year, go round the island, to fee that no cloves are planted and if there be, they cut them down and burn them, for fear any other nation should take it from them ; which, if they should, I am apt to believe Amboyna would be of little use to them, cloves being the only product'that is valuable upon it. We passed next by the south end of the island Bouton , which is a pretty large place, in the latitude of 5 degrees, 45 minutes south. We steered westward from hence, passing between the Island Cebeles and the Island Zalayer. The south part of the Island Celebes is very high land : It is very,
to MAGELLANIC A. 203 Very well inhabited, and is a very large island,i 7 ° 5 ' taking up seven degrees in latitude. At the south 'end of this island, on the west side, the Dutch have a factory called Macassar, where they have 'a fort of about seventy guns, manned with six or seven hundred Dutch soldiers. The chief product of the place is rice, with which they supply all, or most of their eastern islands. Here are also said to be several gold-mines, of which the Dutch are not yet masters; for the inhabitants are often at war with the Dutch , and have kept them hitherto from those places. There lie between the south end of this Island Celebes, and the Island of Za- layer, three low small isles; and the very best passage is that which lies between the island next to Zalayer, and another very little one which lies to the northward. This is called the second passage, and the first, third, and fourth of these passages are exceedingly dangerous, so that ships generally avoid them if it be possible. I should Willingly give an account of every island I mention, if it was in my power; but, as it is not, the reader must be satisfied with what I can fay without injury to truth. This Island of Zalayer is of a moderate height; it is inhabited by Malayans, and planted all round with cocoa-nut-trees. The inhabitants are forced yearly to fend store of oil and match to the Dutch at Macassar, by way of tribute. From hence we steered west by north, till we had passed a dangerous thole. Called the Brill, and then we haled up south-west; and, in the nighr, saw a small island just by us, which finding we could not weather, we tacked and stood the cither way till day-light and then, finding ourselves to southward of the said island, we tacked, and stood to the south-westward, and soon after saw two other low small islands, bearing from the north to the north-west. We could fee the ground very plain for about two miles, and never had above six, or under five fathoms water, though it looked as if there was not above two fathoms ; We came over this thole about a league to the southward of these two small islands ; and this is accounted the narrowest thole ; for, further to the south- 3 C 2 ward,
204 WILLIAM FUNNELL i7°5-warc^, it is five or six leagues over ; but there also is r.o danger, because you have very even soundings, as five or fix fathoms, seldom over or under. But to the northward of these two islands it is very dangerous, it being all very foul rocky ground, and in some places not above four or five feet water. Therefore'go to the sputhvvard of these islands, and you will be late Although the Dutch , in their maps, have laid down the dangers to the southward, which should have been laid down to the northward of these two isles; and the safe fholes, which we and they always go over, they have laid down to the northward of those two islands, whereas we and they always went over to the louthward of them. We had a draught on board belonging to the Captain of the vessel, which {hewed all this very exactly as we found it: I compared it with several others which were on board, and found a great deal of difference: I asked the Captain the reason of their difference-, and he told me, that the Hollanders knew all the {holes and dangerous places hereabouts very well, but did not desire any body else should know them ; so that, if any foreigner should come into those parts amongst these Iholes, and fail by their draughts, they might unexpectedly be amongst rocks and {holes, where they would certainly lose their ship, as we had done, if we had {ailed by the common draughts, it being the Dutch policy to keep all {hips, belonging to the EngHJh or French , as far ess those islands as they can ; or, at least, if they come amongst them, and happen into their hands, as we did, they take care to fend them away, and let them know as little of them as may be. How far the Dutch may be able to justify such a method of acting, from the conduct of other nations, where they conceive either their safety or interest as nearly concerned, I cannot take upon me to determine : but this, I think, is very plain, that mankind in general suffer by all these narrow schemes of thinking, which undoubtedly contribute to the keeping us in ignorance of those parts of the world, which the Divine Providence never meant to conceal. If, in private life, the. welfare
to MAGELLANIC A, &c. 205 Welfare of the family ought to he preferred to the ca- 1705. price, and even to the interest, of any single person; if, from the just maxims of policy, the good of society ought always to take place of private interest ; then, methinks, the fame method of reasoning should have force with regard to the concerns of a company, and even of a whole nation, when they interfere with the common good of mankind. It may he thought a little enthusiastic, but, I must confess, it has been always my private opinion, that, as all these great discoveries have been made, not only since the Christian dispensation took place, but since the fundamental doctrines of Christianity have been set free from the e> tours of superstition, it looks as if the Almighty designed, tha$ all the inhabited parts of the globe should have an opportunity afforded them, of embracing so excellent a rule of life ; and therefore 1 persuade myself, that all the attempts made to limit or prevent this, are not only impious in their nature, but will likewise be found impracticable in the end. To seek new countries for the fake of spoiling them of their wealth, or making staves of the people who dwell in them, is a design so base and barbarous, that no nation will certainly avow it; but to aim at the discovery of countries hitherto unknown, in order to employ our poor at home, and to extend the blessings we poisefs to the most distant and, distressed people in the universe, is a great and good design ; and seems so exactly to coincide with the views of Providence, that 1 think the nation can scarce fail of becoming rich, happy, and glorious, that, pursues, it with a spirit worthy of so noble, generous, and humane an undertaking. On October 21, 1705, we entered the harbour of Batavia ; and, as soon as we landed, we were sent to the rest of our men, who were still in custody. A little after, the Major of the castle was sent to us, and desired we would transmit the general, by him, an account of our losses, which we received by cur being taken ac Amboyna ; and that we should be satisfied on. all accounts as to our effects, loss of time, and impri-, ibnment.
2o6 WILLIA M FUNNELL; L705. sonment. Accordingly, we each of us drew up an ac- v ' v ' y count of our lasses, and sent it by the Major to the General, who returned us for anfsVer, that very speedily we should have our freedom. On October 27, we were all sent for to the fort, and most of Our ready money was returned to us again ; but for our goods, loss Of time, and imprisonment, we could have no satisfaction ; only the General told to us, he had given us all that the Governour of Amboyna had sent to him ; and that, if there was any thing more, he knew nothing of it; and that we were now at our liberty to go whether we pleased. We desired, that, since our vessel was taken from us by the company, he would be pleased to take care to find us some (hip, in which we might return home; which he promised he would. We were forced to be content, and went and took lodgings in the town, till we could meet with an oppdrtunity of returning home. In the space of about seven weeks that I remained here, 1 made all the observations I could on the place, and its inhabitants. The former I found in as good condition as it was possible, and the latter appeared to me as prudent and industrious a people as ever I saw; but the descriptions that have been already published of both are so exact, as to render it unnecessary for me to trouble the world with my collections. 1 shall content myself, therefore, with making a very short description of the place, as I think it necessary to render my work all of a piece ; and shall refer the curious reader, for further satisfaction, to the large ac - counts that have been published by Dutch , French , and Englijh writers; but elpecially the first, who are equally capable and willing to represent it fairly. This city of Batavia is the chief place the Dutch have in India, receiving, by shipping, the product of India, Japan, and China. It is inhabited by several forts of people, as Dutch, Portuguese, Chinese, Persians, and Negroes; but the Malayans are the natives; The Dutch are masters of the place, and have a very sine large town, in which are seven churches, Dutch, Portuguese, Malays, and Chinese, with several very spacious houses, built
to MAGELLANICA, &e. 207. built after the European manner: The town is all wal- 1705, Jed and moted round ; and the walls are abundantly provided with cannon. In the middle of the town, in a great square place, is a very fine Stadthouse, where all public affairs are transacted. The town, with all the fortifications, is commonly governed by one of the States of Holland , who has the title of General of India , and all other governours are subordinate to him. The inhabitants here do not care how often they change their general ; for, at the coming of a new one, all prisoners are released, except such as have committed rnurder. He has twelve to assist him, who have always the title of Rads, or Lords of India: These are such as have been formerly chief governours in several places in India , as of Ceylon, Amboyna , Malacca , &c. The town is divided by canals, over which, almost in every street, there are bridges laid, and boombs to haul a- cross, which let no boats go in and out after sun-fet. The chief produce of the place is pepper, of which the Butch yearly export great quantities : Here are also some few diamonds, and other precious stones. Of fruits here are plantains, bananas, oranges, lemons, pomegranates, mangastans, and rumbostans. The mangastan is about the bigness of a golden runnet; it is quite round, and looks like a small pomegranate. The outside rind is like that of a pomegranate, only of - a darker colour; but the inside of the rind is of a fine red; within this rind is the fruit, which is of a fine white, and lies in cloves almost like garlic; there are commonly four or five cloves in each, and they are very soft and juicy-, within the clove is a sinall black stone. We commonly fuck the fruit from the stone, and the fruit is very delicious; the stone we throw away, being very bitter, if chewed. The rumbostan is about the bigness of a walnut, when the green peel is off. It is also pretty near the shape of a walnut, and hath a thick tough outer rind, which is of a deep red, full of little knobs of the fame colour; within the rind is, the fruit, which is quite white, and looks almost like a jelly ; and within the fruit is a large stone ; it is very
20S 1705. WnJ WILLIAM FUNNELL, very delicate, and though a an meat ever so much, yet it never does him any harm, provided he swallows the stones as well as the fruit; but otherwise they are said to cause fevers. The Island of 'Java, on the north side of which Batavia stands, is in length, from east to west, about ten degrees. The wind and weather is'extremely regular at Batavia , and the Dutch inhabitants know how to make use of it at all seasons to the best advantage. In the eastern monsoon the land-winds are at south-east, sometimes more southerly; and the sea- winds at north-east fine pleasant gales. This easterly monsoon is accounted the good monsoon, it being fine fair clear weather, beginning in April, and ending in October ; but the westerly monsoon is called the bacj monsoon, being rainy and blustering weather, with much thunder and lightning, especially in December, January, and February. This bad monsoon begins in November, and ends in March, or on the beginning of April. In it the land-winds are at west-south-west, ahd south-west; and the sea-winds at north-west, and west-north-west. The anchcr-ground, all along the north side of Java, from the Island Madura to Batavia, is fine oufy ground, and clear of rodes. The principal places on this side of the island are Batavia, Bantam, Japara, Samarang, Surabon, "Taggal, the Quale, and Rambang-, all these places are settled by the Dutch: They afford rice, with which they supply all their out- factories hereabouts, as also very good plank for building ships with. The chief place for building is Ram- hafig, whether the freemen go to build small vessels, as sloops and brigantines; also several ships of five, fix, or leven hundred tons, laden with timber at Rambang, the Quale, Jafara, &c. and each strip, when full, tak- eth a great raft of the largest of the timber in a tow to Batavia : Some of these rafts are said to be thirty feet square, and to draw twenty-two feet water : There are commonly six of these ships, which are thus laden with timber; and they commonly make four voyages in the good monsoon ; for in the bad they cannot do any thing. All this timber is commonly landed upon a small
to MAGELLANIC A. 209 small island, between four and five leagues from B&ta- 1705- via, where the Ihip-carpenters are usually kept at w "'' work; nay, they are said to be never out of employ ; they are about 2qo in number; and the island is called. Unrefty or Onrufl. The Dutch careen their ships here ; and it is very well fortified, being (to use a sea-phrafe) all round a bed of guns. We had notice given us on September 2, that all of us who desired to return to fcttgland , should go imme- > diately on board the Dutch East-India fleet; which ac, cordingly we did, and failed the next day. This fleet confided of twelve fail, as well provided in every re* specs as any strips I ever saw; and we made the voyage in as good order, arriving on February 3, 1706, at ^he Cape of Good Hope. The Dutch have here a strong fortress , and, about half a mile distance from thence, a very fine town, consisting of a small church and 150 bouses. The land in the neighbourhood is very high, and most of the mountains are barren, producing only a few shrubs. The country within is full of lions, tygers, ■elephants, and other wild beasts, which give the people, who are fettled here, great disturbance. It is for this reason, that the Government has found it necessary to promise to any one who kills a lion fifty-two guilders, W'hich amounts to spur pounds six shillings and eight- pence; and for killing a tyger, he has a reward of twenty-four guilders, or forty shillings. A Scotchman , while we were here, killed four lions, three tygers, and three wild elephants •, for which he had his reward accordingly, to the aforesaid proportion. This country produces several forts of fruits, common and not common with us in Europe , as pomegranates, water-melons, chestnuts, with some plantains and bananas ; and great plenty of very good grapes, of which the Dutch make a very pretty pleasant wine, called Cape-wine, in great quantities, which, by retail, is commonly fold at eight 1 -pence a quart. It produces likewise plenty of garden-fruit, which is very refreshing to those that arrive here sick of the scurvy : Here are also abundance Vol. III. Dd of
210 WILLIAM FUN NELL, 1705.0s stieep, very large, and, I think, as good meat as ever I eat. Of fowls here are several forts, but the most re* markable is the ostrich, which is a very large fowl; The bird itself is little valuable, but its feathers are sent as rarities to several parts of the world : Their eggs are very good meat, as I have experienced many times. That these birds feed upon iron, stones, or any thing that chances to be near them, is fabulous; but, like a great many other fowls, they pick up small stones, which only serve to digest their proper food ; they are of several colours, as black, white, &c. The most remarkable amphibious animal here is the seal, or, as the Dutch call it, the sea hound : They are the sime as those before spoken of at the Island Juan Fernandez-, only the fur of these is not so fine. In this harbour, on the south side, are two high mountains ; the one called the 'Table-Land , which is pretty plain and even at the top, and the other called the Sugar-Loaf from its shape; at the top of this sugar-loaf the Dutch have a small house, and four guns mounted: Here they always keep a good look-out and, at the approach of of any {hip or Ihips, hoist a flag, and fire as many guns as they fee (hips, to give notice to those at th? town. It is not ealy to guess what the reasons were which induced the Englifii to part with th dr property in this place, which is of such mighty consequence to the Dutch , and which might have been made so advantageous to themselves : To speak the truth, the Dutch are very civil and complaisant here ; and, except their not permitting us to travel up into the country, which might have produced more knowledge of it than perhaps would have been convenient for them, they indulged us in every thing we could ask, and furnished us with provisions of all kinds, extremely good, and at very reasonable rates. It is impossible to leave this place, without making a few reflections on the conduct of the Engiijb and the Dutch , with respect to their policy, in providing places of refreshment for their strips in their passage to the Indies. Both have found the necessity
L II 'rb MAG El, LA NIC A, fcdtky of having such places, and, by an unaccounta- i705. ble accident, have exchanged the places of Which they are possessed : The Englijh have the Island of St. Helena , lying in the latitude of 16 degrees south, and 22 degrees longitude weft from the Cape of Good Hope. This island was first discovered by the Portuguese, who put some goats and swine on shore there, the breed of which still continues, and the place' is very plentifully stocked with them. The Hutch inhabited here first, but afterwards thought fit to quit it and then we took possdlien of it, from whom the Hutch took it again, but were soon dispossessed of it, and we have enjoyed it peaceably ever since. This island is about nine or ten leagues in length, not quite so much in breadth, and above 300 leagues from the continent of Africa : Next the sea it is almost every where encompassed with high rocks, which hinder the approach, there being but one place for landing ; and within there are many mountains, but most of them covered with wholesome herbs and plants ; and the valleys are so fruitful, that they produce whatsoever is brought from other parts, and planted in great perfection. It would certainly be one of the most delightful spots upon the globe, and afford the pleaiantest living, if it was somewhat larger, nearer some continent, or more frequented than it is at present. The air is wonderfully excellent, the fresh water excellent, the fruits in the highest perfection, and the sea abounding with filh. The only misfortune there is flows from the want of industry in cultivating these advantages, and correcting such inconveniencies as fall within the power of man to remedy. The Dutch, when they took possession of the Cape of Good Hope, found it the most barren despicable spot that was ever seen, or indeed -could be well imagined; yet, perceiving the importance of it, they resolved to settle there, and improve it, cost what it would : In this they met with many difficulties ; but they were resolved not to be discouraged and, by persevering, they have rendered it, in all respects, the finest settlement D d 2 ia
212 WILLIAM FUNNELL, 1705. in the world, and have proved many settled points in w '" ; planting-policy to be abiolutely false ; of which I shall instance one, and that is, the making wine, which has been over and over declared a thing impracticable in that climate ; but they have now great plenty both of red and white, but especially of the latter, which, after two years keeping, is very justly esteemed preferable to the finest Canary. The industry of the Dutch , and their great success in their improvements, invites our ships, as well as theirs, to the Cape of Good Hope ; and this is the principal reason why we do not make all those advantages of St. Helena , of which the place is capable. This, at the same time, shews the different genius of the two nations ; for, if the Cape had been ever so long in our possession, there is great reason to doubt, whether we should have made any such improvements; as,"on the other hand, if the Dutch could have kept St. Helena , after they took it from us in 1673, it is probable they would have made it another sort of place than it now is; and not have suffered the inhabitants to want bread, merely from their not having power to destroy the rats that breed in the rocks, and from thence sally out in such numbers, as to destroy the kitchen-gardens belonging to their plantations: I fay, they would hardly have suffered this, considering one advantage that St. Helena has, not only beyond the Cape, but even beyond any other settlement; which is, that, as it is at present fortified, it may be justly accounted impregnable, though there should be but a very moderate garrison to defend it. But enough of this : Let us now return to the voyage which gave occasion to these reflections. We were now to continue our voyage to Europe' in the East-lndia fleet; and it was impossible to fee, without surprise and satisfaction, the care taken of their trade by the government established here. It would take up much more room than we have to spare, to enumerate the many instances that might be given of the Dutch prudence in this respect. One, however, shall suffice.
to MAGELLANIC A, fsV. 213 suffice. The East-lridta Company's Admiral not only 1705. hoists his stag in company with the men of war belong- w '~' ing to the States, but his signals also are obeyed by those men of war as cheerfully as if he was admiral of their own fleet. Hence proceeds that regularity that is observed in all their voyages to and from the Eaft-In- dies , when these squadrons fail with as much harmony; in every respect, as if it was composed intirely of ships of war; which is the reason* that our ships, especially in time of war, are content to make some stay at the Cape of Good Hope , in order to have the Opportunity of coming home with them. It is also very surprising, ' to see how great an effect the example of the Dutch has upon our countrymen, who become, in every respect* as regular, and as attentive to signal, as they are; so that very rarely any accidents happen to the ships of either nation, when they fail thus in company. We had an opportunity of observing this during the time of our Voyage to and from the Cape, where we were excellently provided with every thing requisite for our voyage, on which we proceeded on the 24th of March, with a fresh gale of wind at south-east; and went out between Penguin Island and the main-land, having the main on the starboard-side, and the island on the larboard. This is a pretty low sandy island ; in the middle of which, upon the highest part os it, they have a few guns mounted, and near them a flag-staff, on which,, at the approach of any ship, they hoist a flag, and fire a gun, to give notice to the town. This island takes its name from a vast number of birds, called Penguins, which commonly resort near it. These birds are about the bigness of a wild duck-, they do not sty, but flutter, having no wings, but stumps only, like young ducks, and these stumps serve them for sins in the water. They have a sharp bill, but feet like a duck, and their flesh but indifferent food. This kind of fowl is not so large here as in the Streights of Magellan, nor so good however, more use would be made of them, if the Dutch ships were not always so well
WILLIAM FUNNELL 2 14 1706. well provided when they sail from the Cape, that the w "'" ; seamen do not find themselves under any temptation to take up with rank and disagreeable food: And this may be one reason, why they are, generally speaking, pretty free from diseases; one effect, among many, of their strict discipline, of which they stand in need as much as the sailors of any country, being extremely fond of strong liquors, and very abusive vvhen intoxicated with them ; and, therefore, their officers are very commendably careful in their endeavours to prevent it, which they never omit. We were now twenty-four fail of us, viz. nine English , and fifteen Dutch - f and the gale continuing, soon carried us to the true trade. We met with nothing material till the 10th of April 1706, when two of the Englijh ships, failing very heavily, fell a-stern, aud lost our company : They put in to St. Helena , and, as we afterwards heard, were taken out of the road by the French. On the 11 th, we had 25 hogs killed for the strip's company, and the Commodore ordered an hog to a mess, that is, to every seven men, to dispose of as we pleased, besides our daily allowance, so that we had more victuals than we could tell what to do with. On the 15th, a man being barbarously murdered on board the OrttrL Vice-admiral, the mtfrderer was brought on board our ship, tried for his life, and the fame day condemned to die. Lie owned the murder, and desired the favour of the Court, that he might chuse his own death, which was granted; and he chose to be shot, which the next day was accordingly done, all the fieet lying by till his death, and then we all made fail again. On the 17th, we law the Island of Hscenjion, but did not touch here for turtle, although it was their laying-time : The reason was, because we were so well supplied with provisions at the Cape, that we had no occasion for more ; and the Englijh strips being willing to keep us company, they also did not touch here. On the 19th, we had fine fair weather, with a fresh gale at south-east : About eleven this morning happened a great earthquake ; at first it seemed as if the strip ran along;
to MAGELLANICA, dr. 215 along upon the ground : So we heaved out a lead on 17©!$. each side, with two hundred fathoms of line, but found no ground. The whole fleet felt the shock at the fame time, so that for half a quarter of an hour there was nothing but making of signals, and firing of guns. We then reckoned thelsiandof Ascension to bear southeast, distant about forty leagues. We steered thence to the north-west, and had loon an opportunity of observing the great advantage resulting from our imitating the regularity of the Dutch: When I say this, I mean it of the English ships in company, which had quitted their design of bearing up for the Istand of Ascension, in order to remain with the fleet. On the 14th of June, we saw four fail of French privateers, which were waiting there for our homeward- bound ships: They came up, and looked on us; but thought it not advifeable to make any attempt, and soon bore away. On the 30th, we found ourselves in the latitude of 62 degrees, 40 minutes north, which was the furthest northward that I ever was; and I could not but take notice of the difference of cold in this place, and in 60 degrees of southern latitude; for there we had continual showers of snow or hail, and the weather very cold j whereas here, on the contrary, we found the weather very fair and moderate: The reason of which, I suppose, was this; when we were to the southward, we were always pretty near to the main of America , having it to the west of us; likewise, when we were to the northward, we were always pretty near the main-land of Europe , having it to the east of us. Now, being near the land, we always account the land- winds the coldest, and the fea-winds the warmest. Thus the north-easterly wind is accounted the coldest wind we have in England , Holland , &c. but in the fame latitude north, near the coast of America,, the northwest wind is commonly accounted the coldest; and, in the fame height of south latitude, on the coast of America , the south-west wind is the coldest as, near the Cape of Good Hope , the south-east wind is the coldest. Now, the westerly winds, at such a height, both in north
LI 6 WILLIAM FUNNELL, 1706 north and south latitude, having generally the predo- w ° minancy over the easterly, very much alter the degrees of the heat or cold of the weather; for which reason, in the south part of America , the westerly wind caused cold weather; but, to the northward, the westerly wind caused warm weather ; and, as the easterly wind, being near the European shore, is the coldest, so, being near the American shore, in the fame height of southern latitude, the westerly wind is the coldest. These observations are of very great use to seamen, and especially to commanders, because they enable them to guess what weather they are to expect: on any coast, and even to have a tolerable foresight of what may happen in voyages for discovery ; the appearance of which foresight in the commander is of infinite consequence to encourage the private men, who obey with the greatest cheerfulness, and undertake, with the greatest alacritv, whatever they are commanded, by a man, of whose -zudgement they have a good opinion, and of whose skill they have had frequent experience; whereas the least - diffidence in a commander sinks the courage of his sailors, doubles the fear of every danger, and becomes an occasion for future suspicion and contempt. We saw, in the evening of the 3d of July, the islands of Faro, bearing east and by north, distant about ten or twelve leagues. We sounded, but had no ground at no fathoms ; at twelve at night we had ground at 85 fathoms, and at 75 by three in the morning. On the 4th of July, at noon, the two islands of Faro bore south-east, distant about eight leagues. We then, steering north-east, had ground at eighty fathoms, stnall pieces of broken shells. All last night we kept firing a gun every half-hour, to give notice to the cruisers, whom we expected to meet here. On the 5th, according to our expectations, we met with our convoy, which had been cruising for us; they consisted of eight Dutch men of war, four victuallers, and three of the Company's privateers: After mutual salutations, we proceeded to the south-eastward, being all bound
217 to MAGELLANICA, for Amsterdam: And, on the 15 th of July, we all am v-1796. ed safely in the Texel\ and, on the 17th, we got to 'T J Amsterdam. After which, myself, and the rest of our company, went to see several parts of Holland: And, on the 26th of August 1706, after many danger's, both by sea and land, we happily arrived in England^ Jbein|r but eighteen our of one hundred eighty-threeV . Tye news of our misfortunes reached home before iis,. and every body was solicitous to have an account of, what had befallen us in the East-Indies^ and especially in the Island of Amboyna , under the power of the Dutch. These importunities led me into an opinion, that as complete an account of our voyage as it was in my power to give, might not be unacceptable to the Public ; which occaiioned the pains I have taken in compiling this small work; wherein, as there are many adventures not altogether unentertaining, sol hope,,that some of ehe descriptions, observations, and discoveries, may with justice be thought useful. It has hitherto been the just complaint of such as read voyages with attention, that they are often left in the dark, as to very material circumstances, while, j-tc the fame time, they are more than sufficiently informed as to circumstances of very little, or no importance. I have often wondered, that, coniideri'ng the many e- ditions through which Dumpier' s voyages have pasted, there never was any care taken to supply their visible deficiencies. The reasons are very evident to me, why Dumpier did not publish this last voyage of his so the South Seas. If he had spoken the truth, he must have done himself no great credit; and, if he had attempted to impose falsehoods on the world, his officers were most of them alive, and ready to contradict him: He chose, therefore, and 1 think it the most prudent choice he ever made in his life, to be absolutely file so. This silence, however, gives not the least satisfaction to the reader, who, no doubt, would be glad to be informed of all the transactions of that voyage, of which Mr. Funnell has related only a part; though, to Vol, 111 . E e fay
218 WILLIAM FUNNELL, *706. say the truth, that was all in his power. This task I W ' J shall endeavour to perform the best I can, having taken a great deal of pains to satisfy myself in these particulars. The reader may remember, that, the 19th of May 1704, Captain Dampier , in the-Sr. George, left his consort, Captain Stradling , in the Cinque-porfs , at the King's IJland , in the bay of Panama -, after which, •we hear no more of them. The force that Captain Stradling had with -him was very insignificant, and, therefore, they could not maintain themselves long in the South Seas ; which drove them, for the fake of shelter and refreshment, to the Island of Juan Fernandez ; and in such a condition they were, when they came thither, that honest Alexander Selkirk chose rather to stay by himself in that island, than run the hazard of returning into the South Seas on board the Cinque- pcrts: In which he shewed a great deal of judgement; for the Cinque-ports actually foundered on the coast of Bakacora , and only Captain Stradling, and six or seven of his men, were saved, and sent prisoners to Lima , where Captain Stradling was actually living at the time Captain Rogers came into the South Seas; but what became of him afterwards, 1 cannot fay. The next person that left our famous captain, was his mate, Mr. Clipfingtcn , as he calls him •, but the gentleman's name was John Clipperton, of whom we shall have occasion to say much jn a succeeding voyage. He was certainly a man of parts and spirit, and, in all human probability, would npt have left Captain Dampier , if he had not thought, that he would obstinately remain in the South Seas in his old craiy ship the St. George , till site foundered ; and, finding that a great part of the crew ivere of the fame opinion, thought proper to leave him at the Middle JJlands, \\'htrc he was careening; and where it was plain to all wlso saw her, the St. George was no longer sit to put to sea. 1 his was on September 26, 1704; and Mr- Clippertcn had now with him no more than twenty-one men, in a bark of ten tons, with two masts, and two fquare-fails, two pattereroes, and
219 t o MAG ELL A NIC A, *r. and two or three barrels of powder and shot;'yet he 1706. ventured into Rio Leon, on the coast of Mexico, where he took two Spanijh ships at anchor: One was very old and worm-eaten, for which reason he ordered her to be immediately sunk the other ship was newt, and had on board her goods to a considerable value. Captain Clipperton therefore, for so he was now called, sent on shore two of his prisoners, with a letter to the Spa- nijb governour, demanding ten thousand pieces of eight, by way of ransom for that ship. The prisoners spoke so handsomely of Gpperton , that the governour resolved to treat with him-, and therefore sent him word, that he did not think his proposition unreasonable ; but that, as the owners were absolutely ruined, and the town very poor, it wis impossible for him to comply with it; but if 4000 pieces of ei^ht, which was all they could raise, would content him; it should be sent aboard in ready money, md they would rely upon his honour for the discharge of the ship. Cap- ta n Clipperton accepted the proposd ; but, at the same time, informed the governour, that they were in great want of provisions and water; and therefore expected, that whatever could be eat or drank, should not be in- eluded in the capitulation. This was very readily * greed to, the money sent on board the next morns'A' and, as soon as the provisions could be got out of ier* the ship was very honourably restored. Captain-'hsp- perton failed from thence to the Gulf of Salinas, vhere they drew their little vessel ashore; in order f clean and refit her, which they did very effectuaF ' anc *- then resolved, even in this cockle-shell of about, to fail for the East-Indies ; which they did, anc keeping in the latitude of 18 degrees north, reachd the Philippine Islands in fifty-four days. While "cy were a- mong these islands, there came off a cdoe, with a Spanijh priest in it, whom they detainechdl they were furnished with fresh provisions, and ther set bint at liberty. The next scheme they formed was to go to the Englijh settlement at Pitlo Condore, which lies in
2 2*0 WIL L 1 A M FUNNEL U 1706. the lautude of 8 degrees 40 minutes north; and ac- cordingly came thither: But, understanding that the English 'had been massacred by their Indian soldiers on March zd, 1705, they found there was no safety to be expected there; and therefore instantly bore away for 'Macao , 'a port belonging to the Portuguese in China, where they all shifted for themselves as well as 'they could. Some went to Penjar, in order to enter i;lto the Eajl-lnc!ia company's iervice ; others to Gca, to serve the Portugueje ; and some entered into the pay of the Great Mogul; for, after so long a voyage, they were To bare, that any means of providing for themselves appeared very agteeable. As for Captain Ciip- fertoK, he returned to England in 1706, and lived af- 'terwards to make anorner voyage round the world in the Success, of which, in its proper place, we snail give an account. It is requisite, in the mean time, to go back again :o Captain Dumpier, in order to show what became of him, after so great a part of his strip's company had deserted him. it is not easy to conceive a man in a worse situation, than Mr. Dam- pitr found himself at the time Mr. Funnell and his people left him. It was at the close of the year 1704, fey took this resolution; and all the people that it w.'s in the power of Dampier to keep with him were hu twenty-eight ; and even these he prevailed upon to hy, by representing, that there was nothing easier than-o make their fortunes by surprising some small L/Mp, village ; and that the fewer there were of them, the rew r there would be to share the booty. After some .cogitation, they resolved to attack Puna, an hamlet 0.village consisting of about thirty houses, and a'small threh. There is a lieutenant who commands there, andsse inhabitants were pretty well to pals. According!) he landed in a dark night, surprised the inhabitants i. their beds, and lo took possession of the place with vey little trouble. After plundering this town, they repaired to the island of Lobes de la Mar, in order to conauer what they should do next; and,
221 to MAGELLANICA, & c . by the way, took a small Spanijk bark, well furnished 1706. with provisions. After some consultation, it was re- 1 ^ 0 solved to quit their own ship, and to endeavour, in this bark, to continue their voyage to the Etift Indies. Accordingly they left the St. Gecrge at anchor under this island, after having taken out all that was valuable ; and then executed their resolution of sailing to the Indies , where they were in hopes all their troubles would have ended. In this, however, they were quite mistaken ; for, arriving in one of the Dutch settlements, their bark was seized, their goods fold, and themselves turned loose into the world to shift as well as they could : This was the end of Captain Dampier' s unfortunate expedition, who returned naked to his owners, with a melancholy relation of his and their misfortunes, occasioned chiefly by his own odd temper, which made him so self-sufficient and overbearing, that few or none of his officers could endure him ; and, when once dissension begins amongst those who have command, all success may be justly despaired of. Yet, as there was a degree of compassion due to so eminent a man, notwithstanding all his failings, the public expressed it in the strongest manner possible to Captain Dumpier , on his coming home, even in this distress; and he was introduced to the Queen, had the honour to kiss her hand, and to give her some account of the dangers he had run through. The merchants, however, were lo sensible of his want of conduct, that they resolved never to trust him more with any command ; and this, with the poverty brought upon him by his last unlucky voyage, obliged him to make the tour of the world once more, in quality of pilot, on board the Duke , commanded by Captain IVcodes Rogers , whose voyage shall be the subject of the 3d Article : The present I shall conclude with a very few REMARKS. It is very clear, from the several particulars recorded in this voyage, which I take to be as honestly and sincerely
222 WILLIAM FUN NELL, 1706. sincerely written, as any I have ever met with, that w '"' there is no mighty force requisite to carry on a privateering war in the South Seas ; since, if Damper 's temper would have suffered him to live on such terms as were requisite to preserve the affections of his people, it is most certain, that he might have raised an immense fortune for himself, and his owners, in spite of any thing the Spaniards did against him. It is also very apparent, that, with due care and attention, there was no fort of danger of their ever wanting provisions. But the thing that ruined their voyage was, that spirit of discord which remained among themselves, and which, at last, rendered them incapable of any kind of discipline. It is command that makes one body of men superiour to another equal in number, and as well provided with arms; for, by this means, they are broke* exercised, and know their duty in all situations, which others do not; and this naturally gives them a prodigious advantage. The late attempts that have been made in the IVest-Iniies seem to discredit this opinion ; and the stories we have been told of the Buccaneers, have drawn many people to imagine, that, in such attempts, they are superiour to men under regular command. These are dangerous mistakes, such as may have fatal effects, if they spread; and, therefore, every opportunity should be taken to refute them. In order to this, we must fids consider, what is meant by regular troops, and men under regular Command; which certainly implies, men acquainted with the principles of their profession, commanded by experienced officers. It is not the cloth and arms that constitute a regular force, but the knowledge the men have acquired in military discipline; and, as to officers, it is certain, that an old man, who has never seen service, is by no means sit for command, especially in a country where he never set his foot before. As to the Buccaneers, they were, with respect to their personal qualifications, regular troops, and, in time of action, they were pretty much under command; to which all their
to MAGELLAN IC A, &c. 223 their success was owing: But then, as their officers 1706. had no authority, but what they derived from the choice of their own people, and held this only during their pleasure, there was no such thing as forming regular designs, or conducting them, for any length of time, with prudence and discretion: Whence it came to pass, that all their successes were mere temporary advantages, not at all beneficial in their consequences to themselves, or their country. To fay the truth, the only use that can be made of them, is to prove, that much greater things may be done by men better commanded. There is the same difference between Buccaneers and regular forces, as between men of strong parts without education, and men of equal parts with the advantages of learning : The former sometimes produce lively and surprising pieces, but all excellent and lasting works come from the latter. I do not know whether this comparison will at first sight be well relished; but, I am confident, that, when throughly considered, it will be found perfectly just, and equally agitable to reason and experience. The next remark that I shall make on this voyage is, that it fully demonstrates the capacity of our seamen, to do any thing that can be expected from persons skilful in that profession. We see, by the instance of Captain Clipperlon 's sailing, with twenty-one men, in a bark of ten tons, from the South Seas to China > by Mr. Funnel? s doing the same thing j n a vessel not much bigger, and with very few more rpen and by Captain Dampier's doing the like, in cittii m stances very little better; that this is not such a terrsiU e> s uc b an impracticable navigation, as some people of f or what reasons I know not, have endeavoured to represent it: And if great advantages may arise to the commerce of this nation, by voyages into this part of the world, 1 think no man in his fenses can be persuaded, that there is any thing very difficult, much less impossible, in pursuing them; since these examples show, that this is, in fact, the easiest and the shortest way to the
224 WILLIAM FUNNELL, 1706. the Eqst-Indtes, and to the richest and most valuable parts of them. The usage Captain Damfier met with in this, as well as in his former voyage, and the treatment of Mr. hunnell, and his people, at Ambcyna , are proofs sufficient of the temper of the Dutch , and of their preferring the interest of their commerce to any respect for their allies. If we think this right in them, as one would imagine our government did, from their never inquiring after those subjects that were lost, or relenting the usage those met with that escaped, Why are we not as careful of our own trade ? Why do we not prosecute it with the same vigour ? or, Why are we bound to have so much more complaisance for our allies, than they have for us ? It seems to be a matter quite out of question, that commerce is not of greater consequence to them than to us: Both subsist by it, and both must be undone without it. I do not mean to insinuate, that we ought to differ with t'<e Dutch , much less that we should invade their fen-'ements, or endeavour to ruin their trade ; all I aim at is, to show how reasonable, and how practicable a thing it is to extend our own, and how much therefore it ought to be our study. To this I beg leave to add, that as this was always right, so it is now become absolutely necessary : The nation launches out into much largerex- pences, than in former times ; and from hence it is evident, that, if Ihc does not draw larger advantages from trade, she must be undone : This is a truth of so great consequence, u',at no man, who loves his country, can prevail upon himself to mince the matter; Besides, aP national expence consisting in the export of wea-'na, it follows, that we ought, at this juncture especially, to encourage such kind of commerce, as may repair this loss in the quickest and most effectual manner. This voyage, and several of the preceding, ihow us, that there is a short and speedy passage to very rich and pleasant countriesfrom whence we may derive immediately large quantities of gold, exclusive , of other valuable commodities. Besides, we are now
to MAGELLAN I CA, &c. 225 at war with Spain , and that crown has very consider- j 706. able dominions in those parts; where, though I be- w>> iieve they may be comparatively stronger than they are in the American dominions, yet most certain it is, that they are every where upon bad terms with the natives, and have a much greater compass of territory than they are able to defend. There is no doubt to made, that two or three ships, well manned, would be able to make a very profitable voyage this way. I would not be understood to be a warm advocate for privateering, which, I must confess, I think below the dignity of the Britijh nation ; but, as we were drawn into this war by the depredations of the Spanish privateers, as we can get very little by it in any other shape than that of privateering, as the expence it has brought upon us, in the interruption of our trade, requires effectual and quick supplies, we have unquestionably a right to indemnify ourselves, and our interest makes it our duty to pursue it. Nay, this is the most probable , method of putting an end to the' war: We may, by this means, interrupt the commerce between their East and TFest Indies to such a degree, that, in conjunction with the other methods already taken to distress them, it may deprive them of the means of carrying on the war, and thereby incline them, not only to a present peace, but to maintain and preserve it, that they may not have to do again with a power so capable of disturbing, and even destroying them, in all those parts of the world, where no other power can reach them. I cannot help adding a word or two more upon this subject, before I leave it; and that is, with respect to the pqlicy of maritime powers in the management of their wars ; because, if we may judge from the reason of things, or the course of events, this has not been hitherto so well understood as it ought to be: A maritime power ought certainly to avoid, as much as possible, quarrelling with her neighbours, and making an endless or vain-glorious show of her naval strength. Small squadrons, sent frequently on long voyages, Vox,. III. F f will
226 WILLIAM FUNNELL, 1706. will serve to air and exercise hes seamen in the public K ^ r ' J service, without burdening herself, or frighting the rest of the world by frequently drawing together numerous and uieless fleets. The neglect of this maxim has been the ruin of every maritime power that ever existed, with the addition of another errour of a contrary nature, I mean, the carrying on of lingering wars, and not making a Ihort use of superiour power at sea. When peace can be no longer preserved, the next best measure is, to restore it as soon as possible; and this can be done no other way, than by a bold and vigorous prosecution of the war; for, to act coolly, and protract, is to discredit your own power, and to encourage the enemy. This leads me to the last remark, which this voyage shall furnish: The misfortunes that attended Dampier, Stradling , Clipperton , and FunnelI, induced a notion, that it was to no manner of purpose to fit out privateers from hence to the South Seas; and abundance of plausible arguments were brought to prove it; which met with greater encouragement, because the Britifl) administration, at that time, was engaged in the prosecution of a war upon the continent, that rendered it very inconvenient to disoblige any of our allies, more especially the Dutch and the house of Austria , neither of which were well pleased with such kind of expeditions: Yet, in spite of these concurring circumstances, Mr. Dampier could not forbear endeavouring to spirit up a new voyage to the South Seas, where he had already spent so many years of his life to so very little purpose. He was well satisfied, that it was not through any difficulcy in the voyage, from the superiour strength of the enemy, or the want of proper qualities in our people to succeed in such schemes, that so many of them had failed, but merely from their being but indifferently conducted; and therefore he flattered himself, that, if this e- vil was once removed, things would go better, and he might still have an opportunity of retrieving his circumstances, or, at least, of acquiring a tolerable subsistence.
FOUQUET and PEREE, &c. 227 subsistence. It was with this view that he addressed i 7 ®< 5 . himself to the merchants of Bristol , who are justly re- v ' v '' / puted the most active and pushing people in this nation. They heard his proposals with patience, examined them with attention, and, at last, saw so much of probability in what he offered, and such likelihood of his proving a good pilot, though he had been but an unlucky captain, that they determined to fit out two ships at his instance; but resolved to dispose of them as they thought proper. We draw now near the close of this part of our work ; and I should very readily incline to shorten the remaining relations as much as possible : But there are so many circumstances curious in themselves, and transactions of such importance to the trade and welfare of this nation, that, I flatter myself, my readers will be very well pleased to find, that 1 have preserved the same order in these, as in the rest, and do not frustrate their just expectations by hasty and imperfect abridgements, ARTICLE II, FOUQJJET and PEREE, to Magellanic^. The author of this account is one Nyel, a Jesuit, who made the voyage aboard Peree's ship. The war carried on by France at this time, against the maritime powers, had greatly impeded her navigation, so that her ships were obliged to go to China , by the way of the South Sea, which is indeed, the best and surest rout to follow, though custom still carries our navigators by the way of the Cape. The following extract is given from the edition of Nyel '-s book, printed at Paris in the year 1707, among the other letters of the missionaries, tome VII, F f 2 We
228 17 ° 4 - FOUQUET and PEREE, W E sailed from St. Malo's December 26th, 1703, with two stiips destined for (Us, under the command of the Captains Pouquet and Peree. As the Englijk and Dutch had stint up the Straits of Sunda and Malacca , we were obliged, in order to avoid our e- nemjes, to shape our course by the Straits of Magellan , and the South Sea. After three months sailing, we got within 60 leagues °f these famous Straits, now so well known to all navigators, that nothing needs to be here said of them. We shall only observe,' that in our plan, we have laid down the isles of Jnican> discovered by our two captains in their passage back from the South Sea, and so called by them, in honour of Monsieur AEiican, whose zeal for the advantage of his country has lately procured him the Cross of St. Michael. This group of islands lies to the S. E. of the files of Sebald de fjPeert, though we cannot yet ascertain, with precision, either their number or figure. We have also laid down the Island Beauchesne , discovered by the gentleman of that name anna 1701. We had got no further than the first canal of the Strait, a little beyond Bay Gregoire, when a yiolent storm made us loss four cables, and three anchors. We were in the utmost hazard of shipwreck, but it pleased God to preserve us. We remained 15 days in this first reach of the Straits seeking our anchors, and 1 getting water from a river we had discovered. During this time, I often went ashore. The land appeared to me mostly flat and even, intermingled with. some few rising grounds. The foil seemed to be good, and fit for culture. It is probable that it was somewhere thereabouts where the Spaniards built their two forts, called Pbilippeville, and Nombre de Dios , as this is the narrowest place in all the Straits. But at present, no vestige of these places remains *. We saw none of the * We have already seen the catastrophe of this Spanijh colony Vol. I. p. zy6. natives,
to MAGELLANICA. 229 natives, these people generally retiring to the inland, 1704. on the approach of winter; yet, several French ships, W ' J both before and since, have met with them, and fay they appeared friendly and sociable, of a high stature, strong and robust, and olive, coloured, like the other Americans. We hope soon for more particular accounts of them, as I learned in Chili , that the Jesuits there Were resolved to send a mission into Patagonia , as they have already some of their posts within xoo league's of its frontier. After the loss of our cables, we had no hopes to get through the Strait of Magellan , where we were obliged to anchor, every evening ; and winter coming on, oqr commanders resolved to go by the Straits of Le Maire *. Accordingly we weighed on the eleventh of April, 1704, and, two days after, we passed them in the space of a few hours. We afterwards coasted Terra del Fuego , which appeared to me an Archipelago of islands rather than one land-J. I also observed an er- rour of our charts, which give more longitude to this island than it really has. We found it, on a pretty exact computation, not to exceed sixty leagues, though they commonly give it more. It was called Terra del Fuego from the number of fires the first discoverers saw on it, but the inhabitants are less known than the fa*- vages on the other side of the Strait. Garcia de Nodal, who anchored in one of the bays on this coast, fays the Indians appeared docile and friendly. According to modern accounts, these barbarians are as white naturally as any European, but they disfigure themselves by grotesque paintings. They wear the skins of animals round their necks, which cover one half of their bodies, and gird themselves with leathern belts. About their necks they wear chains, made of white transparent * It would appear these French ships were but poorly found in ground-tackle, or else that the crews were soon alarmed at an incident very common in this passage, and which for this, and o- ther reasons, is now quite deserted. f Our chart will verify this Jesuit's conjecture. shells.
2zo FOUQUET and PEREE, 1704- (hells *. Their principal food is a certain bitter herb, carrying a flower somewhat like a tulip. These people were very civil to the Spaniards , working for them, and bringing them the fish they caught. They carried bows and arrows headed neatly with stone, and stone-knives, which they laid on the ground, together with their other arms, to show the Spaniards that they had no suspicion of them. Their huts were composed of branches of trees interwoven, with an opening at top, to give vent to the smoke. They had canoes of the bark of large trees, which might carry seven or eight people, being 12 or 15 feet long, and two broad, built like the gondolas in Venice. They often repeated the word Hoo,hoo: Whether it was their natural cry, or a particular word of their language, the Spaniards could not guess. They seemed ingenious e- nough, severals of them soon learning to repeat the Lord's Prayer. This side of the Terra del Fuego is very high land. At the foot of the mountains, the trees are very thick and high, but the summits are bare, or covered with snow. The anchorage seemed pretty safe and commodious for getting wood and water. Staten Land t which showed itself three leagues off on the left, is also very high and rocky. After getting through Le Maine's Straits, and beyond the islands on the south end of it, we began to feel the rigours of this Antarctic climate. The days, which were only eight hours long, continued always cloudy, and brought with them hail, snow, and rain, * Our author was misinformed. The women only wear these chains, and not the men. I saw lately one of these Patagoniaa ornaments in the possession of a lady in Scotland, made of drown and whitish shells, placed alternatively, and with much more fancy than one could expect from these untutored Americans, They were strung on a strong cord, which appeared to be made of some tough sea-weed, and was long enough to go twice round the neck. The lady, who is eminent for the native elegance of her taste, thought the work very prettily executed. which
to MAGELLANICA. 231 •which made them always gloomy, so that there was a 1704. continual night. The sea went very lofty, occasioned w ' - ' by severe squalls of wind, in one of which we lost Captain Fouquet. Amidst many dangers and alarms we passed the next fifteen days, till we had the good fortune to double Cape Horn , turning up continually against the wind. Let us remark here an errour in these charts, which lay down Cape Horn in latitude 57 degrees 30 minutes ; which cannot be, for we made our passage in that very latitude, and had a good offing, in doubling the Cape, which we therefore judged to lie in 56 degrees 30 minutes, at most. After we had doubled this point, we found the hardest part of our task over, and we soon got into calmer seas, and a milder climate. After a navigation of four months and an half, we anchored, May 13, in the Port of Conception , on the coast of Chili, where Captain Fouquet joined us eight days after. ARTICLE III. WOODES ROGERS, to Magellanica and Polynesia. I T has been universally allowed, by such as are pro- 1708. per judges of such expeditions, that there never K ^ r ' J was any voyage of this nature so happily adjusted, to well provided for in all respects, or in which the accidents, that usually happen in privateers, were so effectually guarded against. All this, I conceive, was chiefly owing to the personal abilities of the gentlemen at Bristol, who charged themselves not only with the expences of this expedition, but with the care of all things relating to it. These worthy gentlemen were, as far as 1 have been able to learn ; viz. Alderman
rz2 WOODES ROGERS, 1708. man Bachelor, John Rumsey, Esq; Mr. James Hollidge, WnJ Captain Philip Freake, Criftopher Shut er, Esq-, Sir John Hawkins, Mr. Francis Rogers, Mr. Thomas Goldney, Captain Thomas Dover, Mr. IF ebb, Mr. John Duckin- field, Mr. John Corseley, Mr. William Sounders, Mr. John Grant, Mr. Daniel Hickman, Mr. Richard Hawk- fworth, Mr. Thomas Clemens, Mr. Thomas Coutes, Captain Stephen Courtney, Mr. Laurence Hollijler, Merchants of Brijlol, and Mr. Palmer, and Mr. Acton, with some other gentlemen of London, who were not concerned till the ships were at sea. Their firlt care Was to make choice of proper officers, in which they were very fortunate : Captain Woodes Rogers, who commanded in chief, was a bold, active, indefatigable officer, one that would not give up his opinion too readily to others, and who was not to be flattered by other peoples giving up their opinions to him. He had been a large sufferer by the French, and was naturally no great friend to that nation but his most singular quality, and that which indeed recommended him to this command, was a peculiar art he had of maintaining his authority over his seamen, and his readiness in finding out expedients in the most difficult conjunctures. Captain Stephen Courtney was a man of birth, fortune, and of very amiable qualities: He contributed considerably to the expence of the voyage, and took a share in it, that he might fee how it jvas managed, and be able either to prevent miscarriages, or, at least, to make a faithful report of them. Captain Thomas Dover, who was third in command, waS a proprietor also, and went for the fame reason. He was by profeilkm a physician, and, towards the decline of his life, made a noise in the world, by recommending the use of crude mercury. He was a man of a rough temper, and could not easily agree with people about him: But his untoward disposition had one good effect, which was this; that it hindered his making any party to support him in his ill humours. As for Captain Edward Cooke , who was second to Captain /
TO M AGELLANICA, £*. 253 tain Courtney , he had been twice taken by the French, 1708. once by four Dunkirk privateers, and again by two W " J men of war of fifty guns. The pilot, in the larger ship, was Captain William Dampier , who was now to proceed for the fourth time into the South Seas, where his name was very well known, and, from his exploits, terrible to the Spaniards ; and they were also extremely careful in the choice of their inferiour officers, and, as far as it was possible, even of -their private men. The proprietors, in the next place, undertook to lay down rules for the conduct of the voyage; which were digested into the following piece, signed by a committee of the proprietors, and styled very properly The Constitution. It ran thus : ' For the better government and regulating of af- * fairs of the present voyage, we, whose names are un- ' derwritten, owners, and appointed directors for the 1 ships Duke and Duchess , do hereby appoint and con- ' stitute Captain Woodes Rogers, "Captain Thomas Do- ' ver, Captain William Damfier , Mr. Carlton Van- * brugh , Mr. Green, Mr. Fry, Mr. Charles Pope , Mr. ' Glendall, Mr. Bullet , and Mr. Wajse, all officers on c board the Duke, to be council on board the said c ship ; and Captain Stephen Courtney, Captain Cooke, c Mr. William Stretton, Mr. Bathe, John Rogers , Mr. ' White , and the master, officers on board the Duchess, * to be council on board the said ship, in case they ° should be separated from each ether; bur, when in ' company, the officers of both ships above-named ' are, conjunctly, at the summons of the Captains ' Rogers , Dover, and Courtney, or any two of them, ' to come on board either ship, and be the council r'e- ' ferred to in our general orders, to determine all mat- ' ters and things whatsoever.that may arise, or be ne- ' cesiary for the general good, during the whole voy- ' age. In case of death, sickness, or desertion, ofa- ' ny of the above officers of either ship, the rest that ' are of the council appointed as forefaid for the ship, ' shall convene on board their own ship, and chuse an- Vol. III. G g ' other
-Z4 \VOODES ROGERS, 1708." other fit person into that office and council. We far- '"' w * ther require and direct, that all attempts, attacks, ' and designs, upon the enemy, either by sea or land, ' be first consulted and debated, either in the parti- * cular, if separated, or in the general council, if to- * gether; and, as the majority thereof shall conclude * how or when to act or do, it shall be indispensably, * and without unnecessary delay, put cheerfully in ex- * ecution. In case of any discontents, differences, or * misbehaviour amongst the officers and men, which f may tend to the disturbance of the good concord ' and government on board, either the men, or per- ' sons, may appeal to the captain to have a hearing and ' decision by a council; or the captain shall call a i council, and have it heard and decided, and may * prefer or displace any man according to desert. All * decision and judgement of this council shall be final- ' ly determined by the majority of voices; and, in * case of an equality, Captain Dover is to have the * double voice, as president of the council; and do * accordingly order him to be president. Ail matters ' transacted in this council shall be registered in a book ' by a clerk appointed for that purpose. Dated in * Bristol , July the 14th, 1708.' John Batchelor, &c. We have two accounts of this voyage, one by Captain Rogers , the other by Captain Cooke, and both in the manner of a Journal. I shall follow Captain Rogers chiefly; but, where it is necessary, shall take in explanatory circumstances and descriptions from Captain Cooke ; yet, as they were both eye-witnesses, and agreed p etty well in their relations, 1 do not think it necessary to break the thread of the discourse, in order to mention their names, but proceed, as near as may be, in the words of Captain Rogers. 11 AU things necessary being provided, lavs he, we were first to fail for Corke , in order to make up our complement of men ; our force standing thus: The Duke , burden about 300 tons, 30 guns, and ijo men, Captain IVoodes Rogers commander, Captain 'Thomas Dover second captain, ■ with
TO M AGEL LANIC A, &e. with three lieutenants, &c. , and the Duchess , Captain Stephen Courtney commander, Edward Cooke rd Captain with three lieutenants, burden 270 tons, 26 guns, and 151 men : Both stops had legal commissions from his Royal Highness Prince George of Denmark, Lord High Admiral of England , to cruise on the coasts of Peru and Mexico , in the South Seas, against her Majesty's enemies, the French and Spaniards , and to act jointly, as belonging to the fame owners, merchants in Bhstol. On the 15th of June, 1708, we towed down from Hong-road to King-road , in order to fit our ship, and the better to keep our seamen on board ; where we continued till Monday August the ist; and then, at eleven in the forenoon, unmoored ; and at two w.igh- ed, with our consort the Duchess, eight sail of other ships, and two stoops; and having little wind, and that westerly, towed down about five miles below the Holmes , where we anchored in about nine fathoms water : At one in the morning we weighed, and made fail with a small easterly breeze; shortened sail, at eight, for our consort; and, at twelve, the island of Londy bore west-by-south, distant about three leagues : In the evening, saw a fail right a-head, which we chased till night, and then shortened sail for the ships a- stern. On the 5th of August, we had sight of the Irish shore; and, about eight in the evening, we weighed with the stood, a small gale at east : It came on to blow, and veered to the northward. We had a Kin- sale pilot on board, who endangered our strip, it being dark and foggy. Before day, he would have turned us into the next bay to the westward of Corke, had not I prevented it; which provoked me to chastise him for undertaking to pilot a ship, since he understood his business no better. The rest of our company, except the Diamond and Sheresione galley, got into Corke before us ; only our consort staid in the harbour's mouth, till we came up with her. On the 9th, in the afternoon, came in the Ilasings , with the fleet under her G g 2 convoy, 2 35 1708. '✓W
2 z6 WOOD ES ROGERS, 17 . 08 . convoy, which we left in King-roai. We spent the time, till the 27th of August, in adjusting all things, and taking on board our fresh mfen provided for us at Corke, and in discharging several we had brought from Bristol, and whom, by experience, we knew not to be sit for our purpose. On the 28th, in the morning, we fell down to the Spit-end , by the Hastings man of war, as our consort did the night before: When 1 came without the Spit-end, 1 saluted the Hastings with seven guns ihe returned five, and I three for thanks. We had now above double the number of officers usual in privateers, and a large complement of men to each ship. We took this method of doubling our officers, to prevent mutinies : which often happen in long voyages ; and, that we might have a large provision for a succession of dfsicers in each ship, in cafe of mortality. Our fliip was now so full, that we sent our sheet- cable, and other new store-cordage, to Mr. Noblet Rogers, at Corks, to make room for our men and provisions, having three cables besides, and being willing rather to spare that, than any thing else we had on board. Our crew were continually marrying while we staid at Corke , though they expected to sail immediately. Among others, there was a Dane coupled by a Romist priest to an Irish woman, without understanding a word of each other's language, so that they were forced to ule an interpreter ; yet 1 perceived, that' this pair seemed more afflicted at separation, than any of the rest : The fellow continued melancholy for several days after we were at sea. The rest, understanding each other, drank their cans of flip till the last minute, concluding with a health to our good voyages, and their happy meeting, and then parted unconcerned- Most of us, the chief officers, embraced this design of privateering round the world, to retrieve the losses we had sustained by the enemy. Our complement of sailors in both ships was 333, of which above one-third were foreigners from most nations; several of her Majesty's''subjects on board were tinkers, taylors, hay-
to MAGELLANIC A, &c. 237 hay-makers, pedlars, fidlers, &c. one Negro, and a- 1708. bout ten boys. With this mixed crew we hoped to W ' J be well manned, as soon as they had learnt the use of arms, and got their sea-legs, which we doubted not soon to teach them, and bring them to discipline. On *he first of September we took sailing orders, the better to keep company with the Hastings and the fleet; and, after having agreed with our consort Captain Courtney, on signals between us, which are so common, that I need not insert them here, and appointed places of rendezvous, in case of separation, and how long to lie for each other at every place, about ten in the morning we came to sail with the Hastings, and a- bout twenty merchant ships bound to the southward and westward, wind at north-and-by-west: We should have sailed the day before, bur could not weigh and cast our ships clear of the rest; some at that time drove, and the Sherstone galley ran quite ashore on the Spit. In the night it grew moderate weather, and Captain Paul of the Hastings got her off to sail with us. Our holds were full of provisions, our cables, a great deal of bread, an 3 water-casks between decks, and 183 men aboard the Duke , with 151 aboard the Duchess 1 so that we were very much crouded, not fit to engage an enemy, without throwing provision and stores overboard. The next day, we, and our consort, stood out of the fleet, to chase a sail we saw to windward. Our ships sailed as well as any in the fleet, not excepting the man of war; so that we began to hope we should find our heels, since we went so well, though deep-ladcn. We found the chace to be a small vessel coming into the fleet from Baltimore. On the 4th, it blew fresh in the morning : Captain Paul made a signal for me, Captain Courtney , and Captain Edwards , commander of the Scipio ; and, after speaking with him, he sent his boat for us, being larger than ours: We, with Mr. Dover, and Mr. Vanbrugh , went in her, and found Captain Paul aboard his ship. He proposed to me and consort, when he left the fleet, which would be
2Z8 WOODES ROGERS, *7°®- be very soon, to cruise a few days together off Cape Finifterre. After having asked us what we wanted, that he could supply us with, he gave us scrubbers, iron- scrapers for the ship bottom, a speaking-trumpet, and other things, that we had not; but he would accept nothing from us, because our voyage would be long-, but told us, he would be well pleased, if ourowners returned him the fame necessaries for his ship when he came back. About six in the evening we returned to our own ship, and, having called all our crew upon deck, we acquainted them whither we were bound, and what our designs were, that, in case any disputes had arisen, we might have sent the mutineers home in her Majesty's ship of war; but there was nobody at all dissatisfied, except one poor fellow, who was to have been tything-man that year, and was apprehensive his wife would be obliged to pay forty shillings for his default ; but, when he saw every body else easy, and strong hopes of plunder, he likewise grew quiet by degrees, and drank as heartily as any body, to the good success of the voyage. On the 10 th, about six in the morning, we saw a fail, to which we immediately gave chace: About three in the afternoon we came up with her, and then she bore downright upon us, showing Swedijh colours : I fired twice at her, before she brought to; then went aboard her with my yawl, Captain Courtney's boat being just before me. We examined the master, and found he came round Scotland and Ireland •, we suspected he had contraband goods on board, because some of the men, we found drunk, told us, they had gunpowder and cables on board : So we resolved to examine her strictly, put twelve men on board her, and kept the Swedish master, and twelve of his men, on board our strips. The next morning, after we had examined the men, and searched the ship, we found it difficult to prove she was a prize; and not willing to lose time to carry her into any harbour to examine her farther, we let h^r go without the least embezzlement. The master
to MAGELLANIC A, &c. Lzy paster gave me two hams, and some rough-driedi7o8. beef; and I gave him a dozen bottles of Redjireak cy- der. They saluted us at parting with four guns : She belonged to Stadt near Hamburgh, and was a frigate- built ship, of 22 guns, about 270 tons. While I was on board the Swede yesterday, our men mutinied ; the ringleaders being our boatswain, and three other infe- riour officers. This morning, the chief officers having kept with me in the after-part of the (hip, we confined the authors of this disorder, in which there was not one foreigner concerned : We put ten of the mutineers in irons, a sailor being first soundly whipped for exciting the rest to join him; others, less guilty, I punished and discharged) but kept the chief officers all armed, fearing what might happen. The ship's company seeming too much inclined to favour the mutineers, made me more easy to forgive : Some begged pardon, and others I was forced to wink at: However, they began to find their defgn frustrated, which was to make a prize of the Swede, who they alledged had much contraband goods aboard, though we could fee none : Yet they obstinately insisted, that we apparently gave away their interest, by lettmg her go without plundering her. I laboured to convince them of the necessity of our making dispatch ; and that, if we could make her a prize, it would unman our ships too much to fend her into any port; besides other disadvantages it might procure co ourselves and owners, should we be mistaken; which pacified the major part: Our consort's men were at first very uneasy; but, finding the malecontents quelled aboard our lhip, they all kept quiet. We had atterwards a great deal of trouble with these fellows, who did us more mischief when in irons than before, by stirring up the men to release them ; pretending, that they suffered in the cause of the crew, and therefore the crew ought to rise and rescue them. This determined me to make some examples ; but I still resolved to go the mildest way to work. 1 could; and therefore began with removing GilesCajh from
2 4 o WOODES ROGERS, 17-8. from being boatswain, and made another in his room, w '"' without intending any thing farther. But, on September 4th, this intestine storm role higher than ever; for a sailor came up to me at the steerage-door, with the best part of the ship's company at his heels, demanding the boatswain immediately out of custody: Upon this, I desired him to speak with me by himself on the quarter-deck; which he did ; where the officers alfisting me, I seized him, and made one of his chief comrades whip him. This method I thought best for breaking any unlawful friendship among themselves; which, with different corrections to other offenders, allayed the tumult; so that now they began to submit quietly, and those in irons begged pardon, and promised amendment. This mutiny would not have been easily laid, were it not for the number of our officers, which we began to find very necessary to bring our crew to order and discipline ; which is always very difficult in privateers; and without which it is impossible to carry on any distant undertaking like ours. The next evening, we put our old boatswain on board the Crown galley in irons; and sent home letters to our owners, by the commander, to justify our conduct in treating him so harshly. The next day I discharged the prisoners out of irons, on their humble submission, and most solemn promises of dutiful behaviour for the future : Such among them as were petty officers, we restored to their commands, and all on board were forbid to disobey or reproach them, on account of any past errours in their conduct : so that now we were all quiet again, and the crew in exceeding good humour, things having ended much beyond their expectations, there not being a man in irons wfio would not willingly have compounded for a whipping; and were therefore excessive brisk and diligent to show their gratitude for having escaped it. On the iHth, at five in the morning, we saw a sail right a-head, between Fuerteventura and Grand Canary: We chased, and at ten came up with and took her, being
241 to MAGELLANIC A, <&c, being a small Spanijh (hip, bound from Tetter iff to Fu- 1708* 1 erteventura , with several men and women passengers, W ' J and laden with sundry sorts of goods : The next day, at eight in the morning, bore away for Oratavia road, where we stood off and on, and sent away the prize's boat, with one of the owners agents, a priest, and the master of the prize, to treat about ransoming the vessel, and to get wine, provisions, and other necessaries, for both ships. About eight in the morning, of the 20th, a boat came from the town, with a letter from the English merchants residing there, wherein they expostulated with us for making a prize of the bark, alleging, that there was a free trade agreed to in those istands, between her Majesty of Great Britain , and the Kings of France and Spain, so religiously observed by the latter, that they had caused an Engiijh (hip, taken there by a French privateer, to be restored: And, farther, representing the danger that might arise to themselves, living upon permission in the enemy's country, if the said bark were not immediately restored, for which reprisals would be made on them; as also, that we (hould be anlwerable at home for interrupting the settled commerce. This letter was signed by John Poulden , Consul, Bernard IValp, John Crope, and George Fitzgerald, merchants. Captain Rogers, and Captain Courtney, immediately returned an answer; importing, that, having no instructions relating to the Spanijh veflels trading among those islands, they could not justify parting with the bark on their bare opinions, without some order or proclamation of her Majesty; the Engiijh being protected there only on anchoring-ground, and the bark being taken at sea : That, in case Mr. Vanhurgh were not restored, they would carry away all the prisoners they had ; and, if they apprehended any detriment to the factory, they might ransom the bark, and seek their redress in England. They desired dispatch, there being no time to lose; and, upon sending back Mr. Van- hrugh, they would release their prisoners. At night another letter came in answer to this, from Mr. Wil- Vol. III. H h. Ft am
-42 WOODES ROGER S, i 7 oS - Ham Poulden, the Consul; the effect whereof was, That w> ' / the English men of war were civilly received there, and never committed hostilities; and that it was strange we should insist on ransoming any Spaniards , who were never made prisoners in England, or elsewhere : And the Governour there delivered up to him any English prisoners that were brought in by privateers ; wherefore he desired those in our custody might be dismissed, and the bark discharged, except a present of wine in return. With this, from the aforesaid Consul at the city Laguna, came another from the above-mentioned merchants at Oratavia port, much to the same purport with the others, only offering to pay the value of 450 pieces of eight, the sum demanded for the bark, in wine, brandy, sugar, oil, barley, and greens, to prevent incensing the natives against them, not questioning but reparation would be made them in England. The Captains Rogers and Courtney replied at the same time, threatening to cruise among the islands, to make amends for their loft time, and to canonade the town of Oratavia, unless they received satisfaction. On the -ad, at'four in the morning, we stood in for the shore, making a clear ship; but, soon aster, we saw a boat coming, with our owners agent, and Mr. Cross, one of the EngHfh merchants, bringing five burs of wine, and other refreshments. We lay by off the town, took the goods out of the prize, fold the bark to Mr, Cross for 450 dollars, and put the prisoners aboard her. Thus ended this troublesome affair, and we were once more at liberty to mind our own concerns, and to think of prosecuting our voyage; which we did, after first holding a committee, where the whole of the late transaction was candidly examined, and unanimously approved; which method, for every body's security, we steadily pursued through the whole voyage ; and felt the happy effect of it on our return, when every transaction appears in its proper light to our owners. On the last of September we ran by Santa Lucia, one of the Cape de Veri. islands; and, by eight in the morning,
to MAGELLANIC A, &c. 243 morning, being very near the west end of the Island 1708. of St. Vincent , we bore away between it and the Island of St. Antony , and then into the harbour of St. Vincent ; and, about eleven o'clock, came to an anchor in ten fathoms water, within the rock: Then seeing several men ashore, and knowing the island not to be inhabited, Captain Coqke went in the pinnace armed, to see what they were, and found them to be Portuguese, come from the Island of St. Antony to catch sea-tortoises, or, as the seamen call them, turtles; who told him, we might wood and water here. This island lies in the latitude of 16 degrees, 55 minutes north, and 25 degrees, 36 minutes, longitude, from the meridian of London. There are on it great plenty of Guinea hens, some hogs and goats; and, in the road, we caught plentv of fish. In the woods there are abundance of large spiders, as big as small walnuts ; and their webs very troublesome to get through, being as strong as ordinary threads, and very many of them. While we lay here, new disturbances arose amongst the men in relation to plunder; for here we had an opportunity of purchasing things, and therefore every man wished that he had something to purchase with. The effects taken in the late prize occasioned these heart-burnings ; to put an end to all which, and to fix the people in a firm resolution of doing their duty, we determined to settle this affair at once, by framing such articles, as, without giving our owners any ground of complaint, might inspire the seamen with courage and constancy, and make them as willing to obey, as their officers were ready to command. It cost some trouble, to be sure, to adjust and settle these articles; but that was thoroughly compensated, by our finding, that they effectually answered our purpose; and that, among such a number of people, there was not one who refused to comply. This paper was drawn up in the following terms. Ik II h L
244 I7°8. WOODES ROGERS, The Articles to he observed, on board the Duke and Duchess. i. fTpHAT all plunder, taken on board any prize X by either ship, shall be equally divided between the companies of both stiips, according to each man's respective whole shares, as shipped by the owners, or their orders. 2. That what is plunder shall be adjudged by the superiour officers and agents in both ships. Z. That if any person on board either ship do conceal plunder, exceeding the value of a piece of eight, during twenty-four hours after the capture of any prize, he shall be severely punished, and lose his share of the plunder. The same penalty for being drunk in the time of action, or disobeying the superiour officer's command, or concealing himself, or quitting his post in sea or land service. 4. If any prize be taken by boarding, then whatsoever is taken shall be every man's own, as follows; viz. a sailor, 10 1. any officer below a carpenter, 20 1. a mate, gunner, boatswain, and carpenter, 40 1. a lieutenant or master, 80 1. and the captains 100 1. each, above the gratuity promised by the owners to such as shall signalize themselves. 5. Public books of plunder are to be kept in each ship, attested by officers; and the plunder to be appraised by the officers chosen, and divided as soon as possible after the capture; every person to be sworn and searched as soon as they come aboard, by such persons as shall be appointed for that purpose ; the person or persons refusing shall forfeit their share of the plunder as above. 6. In consideration that Captain Rogers, and Captain Courtney , to make both ships companies easy, have given the whole cabin-plunder; which, in all probability, is the major part, to be divided as aforesaid, we do voluntarily agree, that they shall have 5 1. fer cent. to each of them, over and above their respective shares.
to MAGELLANIC A, &c. 245 in consideration for what is their due out of the plun- 1708. aforesaid. • w '"* 7. That a reward of twenty pieces of eight shall be given to him who first sees a prize of good value, or exceeding fifty tons in burden. 8. That such of us as have not already signed to the articles of agreement, indented with the owners, do hereby oblige themselves to the same terms and conditions as the rest of the ships companies have done, half wages and half shares. 9. And for the true execution of the above articles, according to the intent and meaning thereof, and to prevent frauds relating to plunder, we do actually agree, that four men shall be chosen out of the Duke t and four men out of the Duchess, two for the ship's company, and two for the officers of each ship, who are to receive plunder into their possession, and to search every man aboard, and coming from each prize ; and we make this public, to the end that no person, either officer or foremast-man, may refuse being searched by those men chosen for that purpose, on penalty of losing their shares in the prize and plunder, and undergoing such punishment as the captains shall think proper to inflict on them. To which articles of agreement we have set our hands, as our full intent and meaning, without any compulsion, dated October 7, 1708. Signed by the officers and men of both ships. 9. We were at this time under some difficulties upon another account: We had sent our linguist on shore to get refreshments. After staying two days, in which time we heeled and cleaned our ships, and got wood and water on board, our boat returned with nothing but limes and tobacco, and no news of our linguist : But, soon after, there came another boat, .belonging to that part of the island where the governour lives, with his deputy-governour, a Negro, who brought limes, tobacco, oranges, fowls, potatoes, hogs, bananas, musk, water-melons, and brandy, which we bought of
246 1708- WOODES ROGERS, him, and paid in such prize-goods as we had lefc of the bark's cargo, cheap enough. They are poor people, and will truck at any price for what they want, in such payments as they can make. We were now ready to fail, and, therefore, called a council, to consider what was to be done with respect to our linguist, who had promised the deputy-governour to wait for him at the water side, but was not so good as his word; and, therefore as this appeared to be entirely his own fault, the officers of both (hips came unanimously to a resolution, that we had better leave him behind, than suffer two ships to wait for one man who had disobeyed his orders. We were the more inclined to do this, in order to set a proper example, that other people might learn, when sent ashore, to comply with their instruct tions, and come on board directly when they had done their business, without flattering themselves, that fine words, and fair excules, would atone for breach of orders, and the delay of the voyage, to gratify the humours and fancies of private men. It was, indeed, but a very indifferent place to leave him in; but, on the other hand, as he knew the language, was well acquainted with the people among whom he was left, and might easily find a passage home, we persisted in our resolution, and gave the necessary directions for failing as soon as possible, that we might not lose the advantage of the season, or be obliged to double Cape Horn at a wrong season of the year. On the 8th of October, at seven in the evening, after putting the deputy-governour ashore, where he must lie in an hole of the rocks, there being no house on that part of the island, we failed, our consort having got before us, and lying with a light for us. There were several Negroes on the island, that came from St. Nicholas . and St. Antonio , to make oil of turtle, there being very good green turtle at this time of the year, which I sometimes allowed our men to eat; they have likewise wild goats, but in no great plenty, wild asses, Guinea hens, kerlews, and abundance of sea-fowk Captain
to MAGELLANIC A, fcfo 247 Captain Dampier, and others aboard our ffiips, that 1708, had formerly put in at St. Jago, another of those Cape de Nerd islands, told us, that though this island is not often frequented by strips, yet it is preferable to St. Jagg, for such as are outward-bound ; because it is a much better road for strips, and more convenient for water and wood, and has better landing. The island is mountainous and barren the plainest part lies against this sandy bay, where we rode. The wood that grows in it is short, and fit for no use but firing. They have! very large spiders here, which weave their webs so strong betwixt the trees, that it is difficult to get through them : Where we watered, there is a little stream, that stows down the hill, from a spring, and is very good-, but, in other parts, it is brackisli. This island was formerly inhabited, and had a governour; but is now only frequented, in the season for catching tortoises, by the inhabitants of the other islands, who are, for the most part, Negroes and Mulattoes, and very poor. The stock of wild goats in this island is almost destroyed by the people of St. Nicholas and St. Antonio. The heats were excessive to us, who came newly from Europe ; so that several of our men began to be sick, and were blooded. Some of our officers, that went ashore to hunt, could meet no game, but a wild ass, which, after a long chace, they got within shot, and wounded; yet he afterwards held out so as to tire them, and they returned empty and weary. These islands are so well known, that 1 need not fay much of them: They are ten in number, of which St. Jago, St. Nicholas, Bonavista, St. Antonio , Brava, Mayo, and Fue- go, are inhabited ; the latter is so named from a volcano. St. Jago is much the largest and best, and the feat of the chief governour: It produces a small matter of indico, sugar, and tobacco, which, with their goatskins and others, they fend to Lijbcn. The capital is of the fame name, and the fee of a bishop. There is also a town, called Rihera Grande, which is said to consist of 500 houses, and has a good harbour towards the west.
243 WO ODES ROGERS, 1708 west. The dir of this island is not very wholesome, and the foil is uneven. Their valleys produce some corn and wine. Their goats are fat, and good meat; and the shes are said to bring three or four kids at a time, once in four months. St. Nicholas is the best-peopled next to St. Jago. The Island Mayo has a great deal of salt, naturally made by the sun, from the sea water which is left from time to time on pits on Ihore : It is known, they load many ships with that commodity in a year, and are able to furnish some thousands, had they vent for it. The fine Marroquin leather is made of their goat skins. The other inhabited islands afford more or less of provisions : They have their name from Cape Nerd, on the African coast, from whence they lie about 160 leagues to the westward. In our passage towards the coast of Brafil, some new disputes arose a- mongst the men •, and, after various consultations, it was resolved, that one Page, who was a second mate on board the Duchess, should be sent to serve on board the Duke, from whence Mr. Ballet was to remove on board the Duchess. Captain Cooke was sent to execute this order; but Page refused to obey it -, upon which a dispute followed, that ended in blows : However, Page was at last brought on board our ship, where, being charged' with mutiny, he desired to go to the head to ease himself, before he made his defence ; which being permitted, he jumped overboard, in hopes of getting back to the Duchess, while both the Captains were absent; but he was taken up, brought on board again, and punished, which put an end to this dissen- tion. On the 18th of November, we anchored before the Island of Grande, in eleven fathoms water. .While we lay here, there were new quarrels, and things had certainly come to height on board the Duchess, if Captain Courtney had not put eight of the ringleaders immediately into irons; which frightened the rest, and, in all probability, prevented an attempt to run away with the ship - Yet it did not quite free us from ill humours ;
249 to MAGELLANIC A, &c. for, on the 25th, in the afternoon, two Irijh landmen i?oy. stole into the woods, thinking to get away from us, though two such sparks ran away tne 23d from die Duchess , and in the night were so frightened with ty- gers, as they thought, but really by monkeys and baboons, that they plunged into the water, hollowing to the ship, till they were fetched aboard again. About four next morning, the watch on the quarter-deck lpied a canoe, and called her to come on board; but they not answering, and striving to get away, made our people suspect they had either got our men that ran away, or were coming, by agreement, to fetch them off the island which was uninhabited. We immediately sent the pinnace and yawl after them ; the pinnace, corning up near the canoe, fired, to stay them, but to no purpose ; at last, they wounded one of the Indians that rowed in the canoe : He that owned and steered her was a frier, and had a quantity of gold, which he got at the mines, I suppose by his trade of confefiing the ignorant. The frier had just run the canoe ashore on a little island, full of wood, as our boats landed and afterwards told us he had some gold there. A Portuguese, that would not run away with the father, because he had no gold to hide, knew our people to be English, and called the father back. The man that was wounded could not move, and was brought by our men, with the father and several staves, that rowed the large canoe, on board our ship, where our surgeon dressed the wounded Indian, who died in two hours time. I made the father as welcome as I could ; but he Was very uneasy at the loss of his gold, and the death of his slave; and said, he would seel; for justice in Portugal or England, i he next day, both our men were taken and put in irons •, and the last day of this month we left this place, of which I shall give the reader a short description. The Island Grande is remarkably high land, with a small cliff and a tip standing upon one fide, in the middle of the highest land, easy to be ken, if clear. And Vol. 111 . I i there
250 WOODES ROGERS, 1709. there is a small island to the southward without it, which rises in three little hummocks: The nearest hummock to the island is the least; ; as we came in and out we saw it, and it appears alike on both sides. There is also a singularly round white rock, that lies oh the larboard-side nearest: to Grande , between it and the main at the entrance going in. On the starboard- side there are several islands, and the main is much like islands, till you get well in. The best way, when you open the coves that are inhabited on the starboard side going in, is to get a pilot to carry you to the wa- tering-cove within Grande otherwise send in a boat to the fresh-water cove, which lies round the inner westermost point of the island, and near a league in the passage is between small islands, but room enough, and bold : It is the second cove under the first high mount, and round behind the first point you see when you are in between the two islands. This is the cove where we watered ; there are two other coves very. good, with some shole-banks between them, but no shole-ground before we come to this cove. We sounded all the passage in, and seldom found less than ten fathoms water, but had not time to know or found the rest of the coves. The town bears north-east about three leagues distant from this cove. The island of Grande is near about nine leagues long, high land, and so is the main within : All you fee near the water-side is thick, covered with wood. The island abounds with monkeys, and other wild beasts; has plenty of good timber, fire-wood, and excellent water, with o- ranges and lemons, and guavas growing wild in the woods. The necessaries we got from the town were rum, sugar, and tobacco, which they lei! very dear, though not good to smoke, it is so very strong. We had also fowls and hogs, but the latter are scarce; beef and mutton are cheap, but no great quantity to be had ; Indian corn, bananas, and plantains, guavas, lemons, oranges, and pine-apples, they abound with, but have no bread, except cassado, (the lame sort as ■ is
to MAGELLANIC A, &c. 251 is eaten in our West-Indies') which they call Faranada 1709. Pan, bread of wood; they have no kind of falading. We had fine pleasant weather most of the time we were here, but hot like an oven, the fun being right over us. The winds we did not much observe, because they were little and variable, but commonly between the north and the east. We cleared an ordinary Portuguese here, called Emanael de Santo , and stopped another, whose name was Emanuel Gonsalves. I had Ne-w- boff's account of Brazil on board and, by all the inquiry and observation I could make, found his description of the country, its product, and animals, to be just, particularly of that monster called Liboya , or the roe-buck serpent; which I inquired after, thinking it incredible, till the Portuguese governour told me there are some thirty feet long, as big as a barrel, and that devour a roebuck at once, from whence they had their name. I was also told, that one of these serpents was killed near this place a little before our arrival. Tygers are very common here on the continent, but not so ravenous as those' of India, The product of Brazil is well known to be red-wood, sugars, gold, tobacco, whale-oil, snuff, and several sorts of drugs. The Portuguese build their best ships here. The country is now become very populous, and the people delight much in arms, especially about the gold-mines, where those of all forts resort, but mostly Negroes and Mulattoes. It is but four years since they would be under no government, but now they have submitted. Some men of repute here told me, the mines increase very fast, and that gold is got much easier at those mines, than in any other country. The Erasilian women are very fruitful, have easy labour, retiring to the woods, where they bring forth alone, and return after walking themselves and their child ; the husbands lying a-bed the first twenty-four hours, and being treated as if they had endured the pains. The Papoyars, who inhabit the inland country on the west, are the Most barbarous of the natives, taller and stronger than 1 i % the
252 WOODES ROGERS, 1709. the rest, and indeed than most Europeans. They wear Wv ' 1 little sticks through their cheeks and under-lips, are staid to be man-eaters, and use poisoned darts and arrows ; they change their habitations according to the season, and live chiesty by hunting and 6thing. Their kings, and great men, are distinguisoed by the manner of ihaving their crowns, and their long nails. Their priests are sorcerers; making them believe, that the devils appear to them in form of infects; and perform their diabolical worship in the night, when the women make a dismal howling, which is their chief devotion: They allow polygamy, yet punish adultery by death ; and when young women are marriageable, but courted by nobody, their mothers carry them to their princes, who deflower them, and this they reckon a great honour. Some of these people were much civi'ized by the Dutch, and very serviceable to them, but still kept under subjection to their own kings. ' We continued our voyage, coasting very far to the south, where we endured great cold, which affected our men extremely, insomuch that a third part of both strips companies fell tick; and this induced us to bear away for the island of Juan Fernandez ; which we, however, did not find very easily, on account of its be ing laid down differently in all the charts ; and Captain Dumpier was likewise a good deal at a loss, though lie had been here so often, and though he had a map of the island in his head, that agreed exactly with the country when we came to fee it: Which ought to induce iea-officers to prefer what is properly their business to idle amusements ; since, with all this knowledge, we were forced to make the main land of Chili in order to find this island, and did not strike it without difficulty at last. On February ist, 1709, we came before that island, having had a good observation the day before, and found our latitude to be 34 degrees 10 minutes south. In the aft-rncon, we hoisted out our p m ace ; and Captain Dover, with the boat's crew, went m her to go ashore, though we could not be less than four . leagues
to MAGELLANIC A, &c. eyz ieagues off. As soon as the pinnace was gone, I went on board the Duchess, who admired our boat attempt- v '' w ing going ashore at that distance from land. It was a- gainst my inclination ; but, to oblige Captain Dover , I let her go : As soon as it was dark, we saw a light ashore. Our boat was then about a league from the island, and bore away for the ships as loon as she saw the lights : We put our lights aboard for the boat, though some were of opinion, the lights we saw were our bSat's lights : But, as night came on, it appeared too large for that: We fired our quarter-deck gun, and several musquets, showing lights in our mizen and fore-shrouds, that our boat might find us whilst we were in the lee of the island : About two in the morning our b> .at came on board, having been two hours on board the Ditches , that rook them up a-stern of uF, we were glad they got well off, because it began to blow. We were all convinced the light was on ti.e shore, and designed to make our ships ready to engage* believing them to be French ships at anchor, and we must either fight them, or want water. All this stir and apprehension arose, as we afterwards found, from one poor naked man, who pasted, in our imagination, at present, for a Spanish garrison, a body of Frenchmen, or a crew of pirates. While we were under these apprehensions, we stood on the backside of the island, in order to fall in with the southerly wind, till we were passed the island ; and then we came back to it again, and ran close aboard the land that begins to make the north-east fide. We still continued to reason upon this matter; and it is in a manner incredible, what strange notions many of our people entertained from the sight of the sire upon the island. It served, however, to show people's tempers and spirits; and we were able to give a tolerable guess how our men would behave, in cafe there really were any enemies upon the island. The slaws came heavy off the shore, and we were forced to reef our top-lails when we opened the middle bay, where we expensed to have found our enemy-, but saw all clear, and no ships, nor the other bay next the
a S 4 WOODES ROGERS, 1709. the north-east end. These two bays are all that foi'ptz w '~' ride in, which recruit on this island; but the middle bay is by much the best. We guessed there had been ships there, but that they were gone on sight, of us. We sent our yawl ashore about noon, with Captain Dover , Mr. Fry, and six men, all armed: Meanwhile we and the Dutchefs kept turning to get in, and such heavy flaws came off the land, that we were forced to let go our top-sail street, keeping all hands to stand by our fails, for fear of the winds carrying them dway: But when the flaws were gone, we had little or no wind. These flaws proceeded from the land, which is very high in the middle of the island. Our boat did not return ; we sent our pinnace with the men armed; to see what was the occasion of the yawl's stay ; for we were afraid, that the Spaniards had a garrison there, and might have seized them. We put out a signal for our boat, and the Duchess showed a French ensign. Immediately oUr pinnace returned from the shore, and brought abundance of cray-fifo, with a man cloathed in goat-skins, who looked wilder than the first owners of them. He had been en the island four years and four months, being left there by Captain Stradling in the Cinque-ports his name was Alexander Selkirk , a Scotchman , who had been master of the Cinque-ports , a ship that came here last with Captain Dumpier , who told me, that this was the best man in her. I immediately agreed with him to be a mate on board our ship : It was he that made the sire last night when he saw our Ihips, which he judged to be Englijh. During his stay here, he saw several Ihips pass by, but only two came in to anchor: As he went to view them, he found them to be Spaniards , and retired from them ; upon which they foot at him: Had they been. French , he would have submitted; but chose to risque his dying alone on the island, rather than fall into the hands of Spaniards in these parts ; because he apprehended they would murder him, or make a slave of him in the mines; for he feared they would spare no stranger that might be capable of discovering
-55 to MAGELLANICA, &c. the South Seas. The Spaniards had landed, before he 1709- knew what they were; and they came so near him, w '" i that he had much ado to escape ; for they not only shot at him, but pursued him to the woods, where he climbed to the top of a tree, at the foot of which they made water, and killed several goats just by, but went off again without discovering him. He told us that he was born at Largo, in the county of Fife, m Scotland, and was bred a sailor from his youth. The reason of his being left here, was a difference between him and his captain ; which, together with the ship's being leaky, made him willing rather to stay here, than go along with him at first ; and, when he was at last willing to go, the captain would not receive him. He had been at the istand before to wood and water, when two of the ship's company were left upon it for six months, till the ship returned, being chased thence by two French South-sea ships. He had with him his cloaths and bedding, with a firelock, some powder, bullets, and tobacco, a hatchet, a knife, a kettle, a bible, some practical pieces, and his mathematical instruments and books. He diverted and provided for himself as well as he could; but, for the firsteight months, liad much ado to bear up against melancholy, and the ttrrour of being left alone in such a desolate place. He built two huts with pimento-trees, covered them with long grafs, and lined them with the skins of goats, Which he killed with his gun as he wanted, so long as his powder lasted, which was but a pound ; and that being almost spent, he get fire by rubbing two sticks of pimento-wood together upon his knee. In the lesser hut, at some distance from the other, he dressed his victuals ; and in the larger he slept, and employed himself in reading, singing psalms, and praying; so that he said, he was a better Christian, while in this solitude, than ever he was before, or than, he was a- fraid, he should ever be again. At first he never eat anything till hunger constrained him, partly for grief, and partly for want of bread and salt: Nor did he so to bed, till he could watch no longer; the pimento- wood,
2§6 n °a- WOODES ROGERS, wood, which burnt very clear, served hinj both for fire and candle, and refreshed him with its fragrant smell. He might have had fish enough, but would not eat them for want of salt, because they occasioned a looseness, except cry-fish, which are as large as our lobsters, and very good : These he sometimes boiled, and at other times broiled, as he did his goats flesh, of which he made very good broth, for they are not so rank as ours : He kept an account of 500 that he killed while there, and caught as many more, which he marked on the ear, and let go. When his powder failed, he took them by speed of feet ; for his way of living, continual exercise of walking and running, cleared him of all gross humours-, so that he ran with wonderful swiftneis through the woods, and up the rocks and hills, as we perceived when we. employed him to catch goats for us : We had a bull-dog, which we sent, with several of our nimblest runners, to help him in catching goats-, but he distanced and tired both the dog and the men, caught the goats, and brought them to us on his back. He told us, that his agility in pursuing a goat had once like to have cost him his life ; he pursued it with so much eagerness, that he catched hold of it on the brink of a precipice, of which he was not aware, the bushes hiding it from him ; so that he fell with the goat down the precipice, a great height, and was so stunned and bruised with the fall, that he narrowly escaped with his life and, when he came to his senses, found the goat dead under him : He lay there about twenty-four hour.', and was scarce able to crawl to his hut, which was about a mile distant, or to stir abroad again in ten days. He came at last to relish his meat well enough without salt or bread ; and, in the season had plenty of good turneps, which had been sowed there by Captain Dampier 's men, and have how overspread some acres of ground. He had enough of good cabbage from the cabbage-trees, and seasoned his meat with the fruit of the pimento-trees, which is the fame as Jamaica pepper, and smells deliciousty : He"
to MAGELLANICA. 257 He found also a black pepper, called Malageta, which 1709* was very good to expel wind, and against griping in the w '-' guts. He soon wore out all his shoes and cloaths by running in the woods ; and, at last, being forced to shift without them, his feet became so hard, that he tan every-where without difficulty; and it was some time before he could wear shoes after we found him ; for, not being used to any so long, his feet swelled, when he came first to wear them again. After he had conquered his melancholy, he diverted himself sometimes with cutting his name on the trees, and the time of his being left, and continuance there. He was at first much pestered with cats and rats, that bred in great numbers, from some of each species which had got ashore from ships that put in there to wood and water: The rats gnawed his feet and cloaths whilst a steep, which obliged him to cherish the cats with his goats flesh, by which many of them became so tame, that they would lie about him in hundreds, and soon delivered him from the rats: he likewise tamed some kids -, and, to divert himself, would, now and then, sing and dance with them, and his cats: So that, by the favour of Providence, and vigour of his youth, being now but thirty years old, he came, at last, to conquer all the inconveniencies of his solitude, and to be very easy. When his cloaths were wore out, he made himself a coat and a cap of goat-skins, which he stitched together with little thongs of the lame, that he cut with his knife. He had no other needle but a nail; and, when his knife was worn to the back, he made others, as well as he could, of some iron hoops, that were left ashore, which he beat thin, and ground upon stones. Having some linen-cloth by him, he sewed him some shirts with a nail, and stitched' them with the worsted of his old stocking, which he pulled out on purpose. He had his last shirt on, when we found him in the istand. At his first coming on board us, he had so much forgot his language, for want of use, that we could scarce understand him for he seemed to speak Vol. III. K k his
2Z8 W CODES ROGERS, 1709. his words by halves. We offered him a dram *, but he would nor touch it, having drank nothing butwa- ter since his being there : And it was some time before he could relish our victuals. He could give us an account of no other product of the island, than what we have mentioned, except some black plums, which are very good, but hard to come at, the trees, which bear them, growing on high mountains and rocks. Pi- mento-trees are plenty here, and we saw some of sixty feet high, and about two yards thick ; and cotton-trees higher, and near four fathoms round in the stock. The climate is so good, that the trees and grafs are verdant all the year round. The winter lasts no longer than June and July, and is not then severe, there being only a small frost, and a little hail: but sometimes great rains. The heat of the summer is equally moderate j and there is not much thunder, or tempestuous weather of any sort. He saw no venomous or savage creature on the island, nor any other sort of beasts but goats, the first of which had been put ashore here, on purpose for a breed, by Juan Fernandez a Spaniards > who settled there with some families, till the continent of Chili began to submit to the Spaniards • which, being more profitable, tempted them to quit this island, capable, however, of maintaining a good number of people, and being made so strong, that they could not be easily dislodged from thence. February 3d, we <tot our smith's forge on shore, set our coopers to work, and made a little tent for me to have the benefit of the air. The Duchess had also a tent for their sick men so that we had a small town of our own here, and e* very body employed. A few men supplied us all with fish of several sorts, all very good, in such abundance, that, in a few hours, we could take as many as would serve 2vo. 1 here were sea-fowls in the bay, as large as geese ; but eat si soy. The governour never failed of procuring us two or three goats a-day for our lick men; by which, with the help of the greens, and the wholesome air, they recovered very soon of the scurvy so
to MAG ELL ANIC A,. &c. 259 so that Captain Dover and I thought it a very agreeable 1709. seat, the weather being neither too hot nor too cold, W ' J We spent our time, till the 10th, in refitting our ships, taking wood on board, and laying in water, that which we brought from England and St. Vincent being spoiled by the badness of the casks. We likewise boiled up about eighty gallons of se a-lions oil, as we might have done several tons, had we been provided with vessels. We refined it for our lamps, to save candles. The sailors sometimes use it to fry their meat, for want of butter, and find it agreeable enough. The men, who worked on our rigging, eat young seals, which they preferred to our ships victuals, and said it was as good as Englifb lamb, though I should have been glad of 1 'uch an exchange. We made what haste we could to get all the necessaries on board, being willing to lose no time; for we were informed at the Canaries , that five stout French strips were coming together to these seas. The Island of Juan Fernandez lies in the latitude of 33 degrees, 49 minutes .jouth, longitude from St. Marfs 5 degrees, 38 minutes, meridian distance from the fame 4 degrees, 43 minutes west, the variation of the compass here 6 degrees east. This island is high ragged land, in length about six leagues, and about three in breadth. I know of nothing about it that may endanger a strip, but what may be seen. We anchored in the great bay, our best bower in forty fathoms water, and then carried the stream-anchor in with the shore, which we let go in about thirty fathoms water, mooring on and off about a mile from the bottom of the bay, where we found plenty of fistr of several sorts, as silver fish, snappers, bonetoes, and a very large cray-fnb. The wind here commonly blows off the shore, sometimes very hard squalls, else generally calm ; and the water We rode in very smooth, by • reason of the winding of the shore. The man we found here, mentioned at our coming to this island, told me, it had never blown in above four hours ail the time he Kk 2 was
i 6 o WOODES ROGERS, 1709. was there. The situation of the island is north-west W ' J and south-east, and receives its name from its first discoverer Jmn Fernandez , a Spaniard. It is all hills and valleys, and, I question nor, would produce most plants, if manured i for the foil, in most places, promises well; and there are some turneps, and other roots, which, I suppose, were formerly sowed ; and there is great plenty of wood and water, as also of wild goats, which we daily took with dogs, or else shot them. In every bay there are such multitudes of great sea-lions, and seals of several forts, all with excellent furs, that we could scarcely walk along the, store for them, as they lay about in flocks, like sheep, the young ones bleating like lambs. Some of the sea- lions are big as our Englijh oxen, and roar like lions. They cut near a foot in fat, having short hair, of a light colour, which is still lighter in the young ones. I suppose, they feed on grafs and fish ; for they come ashore by the help of their two fore-feet, and draw their hinder part after them, and lie in great numbers in the fun. These we kill chiefly to make oil, which is very good ; but it is an hard matter to kill them. Both the seals and lions are so thick on the shore, that we are forced to drive them away, before we could land, being so numerous, that it is scarce credible to those who have not seen them; and they make a most prodigious noise. Besides, we met with such plenty of fish, as polloc, cavallos, hakes, old wives, and large cray-sifh, as good as our lobsters, &c. that, in four hours, two men in a boat near the shore, in five or six fathoms water, might take enough to serve two hundred men. There are but few birds : One fort burrows in the earth, like rabbits, which the Spaniards call Parddas , and fay, they are good to eat. One of them flew into the fire at our sick mens tent. And here are also humming birds, about as big as bees; their bill about the bigness of a pin ; their legs proportionable to the body; the teathers very small, but of most beautiful colours. They are seldom taken, or
to MAGELLANICA, &e. 261 ©r seen, but in the evenings when they fly about, and 1709. sometimes, when dark, into the fire. I had almost for- W ' J got the wild cats here, which are of several colours , but, being of the European kind, no more need to be said of them. I believe there is no venomous creature on the island. This island produces a fort of cabbage- tree, which is in the nature of a palm; the cabbage small, but very sweet. The tree is slender and strait, with knots about fourteen inches above one another, and no leaves, except at the top. The branches are about twelve feet in length; and, about a foot and an half from the body of the tree, shoot out leaves, which are four feet long, and an inch broad, growing so regularly, that the whole branch looks like one intire leaf. The cabbage, when cut out from the bottom of the branches, is about a foot long, and very white; and, at the bottom of it, grow clusters of berries, five or fix pounds weight, like bunches of grapes, as red as cherries, bigger than our black cherries, with a large stone in the middle, and taste almost like our haws. The trunk of the tree is eighty or ninety feet long, being always cut down to get the cabbage. We found here some Guinea pepper, and silk cotton-trees, with several sorts of plants, whose names I am not acquainted with. Pimento is the best timber, and most plentiful, on this side the island-, but very apt to split, till a little dried. We cut the longest and cleanest to split for fire-wood. The cabbage-trees abound about three miles in the woods, and the cabbage very good. Molt of them are on the tops of the nearest mountains. In the first plain, we found store of turnep-greens, and water-cresses in the brooks, which mightily refresh- • ed our men, and cleansed them from the scurvy. The turneps, Mr. Selkirk fays, are good in our summer-months, which is winter here; but, this being autumn, they were all run to feed so that we-could not have the benefit of any thing, but the greens. The foil is a loose black earth, the rocks very rotten ; so that, without great care, it is dangerous
262 WOODES ROGERS 1709. dangerous to climb the hills for cabbages. Besides,, there are abundance of holes dug in several places by a fort of fowls, like puffins, which fall in at once, and endanger the wrenching or breaking of a man's leg. Mr. Selkirk told me, he had seen snow and ice here in July; but the spring, which is in September, October, and November, is very pleasant, when there was abundance of good herbs, as parsley, purslain, si th es in great plenty, besides an herb found by the waterside, which proved very useful to our surgeons for , fomentations. It is not much unlike feverfew, of a very grateful smell, like balm, but of a stronger and more cordial scent. It is in great plenty near the Ihore. We gathered many large bundles of it, dri^d them in the lhade, and sent them on board, besides great quantities that we carried in every morning to strew the tents ; which tended much to the speedy recovery of our sick men, of whom none died, but two belonging to the Duchess ; viz, Edward, stilts, and Chrijtopher Williams. On February 13th, we held a consultation, in which we made several regulations for preserving secrecy, discipline, and strict honesty, on board both vessels; and, on the 17th, we settled another matter of as great importance, which was, that two men from on board the Duke should be put on board the Duchess , and two men from on board the Duchess on board the Duke, in order to fee, that justice was reciprocally done by each ihip's company to the other. On the, 28th, we hoisted both pinnaces into the water, to try them under fail, with a gun fixed in each of them, and whatever else was requisite to render them very serviceable small privateers. We found the nights very cold, and the days not near so warm as. might have been expected in that latitude, where there never falls any rain, but such dews in the night, as are equivalent to it, though the air is, generally speaking, serene. On May 15th, in the evening, we saw a sail: Our consort, being nearest, soon took her. She was a little
To MAGELLANIC A, &c. L6Z fc little vessel, of sixteen tuns, from Payta , bound to i7°9- C'beripe for flour, with a small sum of money to pur- ■chafe it; the master's name was Antonio Heliagos , a Mestizo, , or one begotten between an Indian and a Spaniard ; bis crew eight men, one of them a Spaniard , one a Negro, and the rest Indians. We asked them for news ; and they astlred us that all the French (hips, being seven in number, failed out of these leas fix months ago ; and that no more were to return : Adding* that the Spaniards had such an aversion to them, that, at Callao , the sea-pui t for Lima, they killed so many of the French , and quarrelled so frequently with them, that none were suffered to come alhore there for some time before they sailed from thence. After we had put men aboard the prize, he hauled off close on a wind for Lotas , having shot within it; and had we not been better informed by the crew of the prize, might have endangered our ships, by running in farther, because there are shoals between the island and the main. There is a passage for boats to windward to come into the road, which is to the leeward of these islands, in a sound between them. It is not half a mile broad; but above a mile deep; has from ten to twelve fathoms water, and good anchor-ground. There is no coming in for ships, but to leeward of the islands. We went in with a small weather-tide, though 1 never perceived it to flow above three feet whilst we lay here. The wind commonly blows southerly, veering a little to the eastward. On the eastermost island, (which was on our larboard-side as we lay at anchor in the found) there is a round hummock, and behind it a small cove, very smooth, deep, and convenient enough for a ship to careen in. There we hauled up, and fitted our little frigate. The highest part of the island appears, in the road, not much higher than a large ship's top- mast-heat. The foil is an hungry, white, clayish earth, mixed with sand and rocks. 1 here is no fresh water, or green thing, on the islands. Here is abundance as vultures, alias carion-crows, which looked so like turkeys,
264 WO ODES ROGERS, 1 7 ° 9 - turkeys, that one of our officers, at landing, blessed himself at the fight, and hoped to fare deliciouily here. He was so eager, that he would not stay till the boat could put him ashore j but leaped into the water with his gun, and, getting near enough to a parcel* let fly at them: But, when he came to take up his game, it stunk insufferably, and made us merry at his mistake. The other birds here are, penguins, pelicans, boobies, gulls, and a fort of fowls like a teal, that nestle in holes on the land. Our men got loads of them* which they skinned, and praised them for very good meat. We found abundance of bulrushes, and empty jars, that the Spanifi fishermen had left ashore. All over this coast they use jars instead of casks, for oil, wine, and all other forts of liquids. Here is abundance of seals, and some sea lions. The seals are much larger than at Juan Fernandez, but the fur not so fine. Our people killed several, with a design to eat their livers ; but, one of our crew, a Spaniard , dying suddenly after eating them, I forbad the use of them. Our prisoners told us, they accounted those old seals very unwholesome. The wind, always blowing fresh over the land, brought ah ugly noisome smell aboard from the seals ashore ; which gave me a violent headach ; and every body else complained of this nauseous smell. We found nothing so offensive at Juan Fernandez. Our prisoners told us, they expected the widow of the late Viceroy of Peru would shortly embark for Acapulco , with her family and riches, and stop at Payta to refresh, or fail near in sight, as customary, in one of the King's ships of thirty-six guns-, and that, about eight months ago, there was a ship, with 200,000 pieces of eight aboard, the test of her cargo liquors and flour* which had passed Payta for Acapulco. Our prisoners added, that they left Seignor Morel in a stout ship, with dry goods, for Lima, recruiting at Payta, where he expected in a few days a French- built ship, belonging to the Spaniards , to come from Panama , richly laden, with a Bishop aboard. Payta is a common recruiting
t to MAGELLANICA, & 5 V. 265 crusting place to those, who go to or from Lima, or 1709. moll parts to windward, in their trade to Panama, W ' J or any part of the coast of Mexico. Upon this advice, we agreed to spend as much time as possible cruising off Payta, without discovering ourselves, for fear of hindering our other designs. On April ist, we took a galleon, by which I mean no more than a snip built in that manner, commanded by two brothers, whose names were Joseph and John Morel. She was of the burden of 500 tons, laden with dry goods and Negroes.' The next day, we took another prize; and, on the 7th, Mr. Vanburgh was removed from the council. But here our authors differ: Captain Rogers fays, that Captain Dover accused him of great insolence to him-, but Captain Cooke lays, that it was Captain Rogers himself that accused him, for .offering to vote with him, right or wrong, upon ali- occasions. It was a great pity these disputes happened at that time, when all things were preparing for action, and a resolution taken to attack the town of Guiaquil , however provided-, in order to which, it was determined, to fend the Duke and the Beginning to Payta , the latter to go in and take a view of the harbour, to fee if there were any ships in it, and afterwards to ■cruise with thirty men, in hopes of falling in with the aforesaid Bishop. This was a season of great consultation, which was soon succeeded by action. And here I chuse to follow both authors, in order to avoid that air of partiality and vanity, which appears in one of them, the world desiring to know only facts, and not being at all edified with the disputes amongst two or three captains for command, though it does not appear that Captain Courtney was ever affected with this > fort of folly. On April 1 ith, there was a grand council held on board the Duke, wherein all things were fully considered, the conquest of Guiaquil resolved on, and a paper, in the nature of instructions from the, committee to the Commanders in chief, was prepared; which, however formal it might seem, was undoubt- Vol, III L 1 edly
266 WOODES ROGERS, * 7 ° 9 - edly a very right method, and kept, as well as taught, every man in his duty. On April 12th, it was resolved in a committee, not to send the Beginning prize into Payta , as had been agreed on, for fear of being discovered; but to attempt the town of Guiaquil , the enterprize to be conducted by the three Captains Dover , Roger j, and Courtney the first to command a company of marines of seventy men; the second, a company of officers anu sailors of feventy-one men; the third, such another company of feventy-three men ; Captain Damper s with the artillery, and, for a reserve, upon occasion, twenty-two men : In all two hundred and thirty-eight. Captain Edward Cooke to command the Duchess , with forty-men-, Captain Rchert Fry, th t Duke, with forty men ; total 320 men : The Blacks , Indians , and, prisoners, were about 266 more. On the 13th, we hauled in for Cafe Blanco, that is White Cafe-, and, at noon, it bore eait-iouth-east, distant ten leagues : A committee being held, it was agreed, for the encouragement of officers and men, that, all bedding and eloaths, gold-rings, buttons and buckles, liquors and provisions, for their own expence and use, with all sorts of arms, except great guns for snips, should be allowed as plunder, to be equally divided to every matt aboard, or ashore, according to his whole shares that all wrought gold or silver, crucifixes, or watches, found about the prisoners, or wearing apparel of any kind, should also be plunder, except money, womens earrings, loose diamonds, pearls, and precious stones * and, in case any thing was not sufficiently explained in this order, a committee should, after the expedition, meet again, upon application made to them; and determine what further ought to be reputed plunder, without fraud to the owner's, cr prejudice to the officers and men : that no persons should misinterpret this allowance, so as to secure or conceal either wrought or unwrought gold or silver, pearls, jewels, diamonds, or precious stones, not found about prisoners, or their wearing
to MAGELLANIC A, & e . wearing apparel, which should be looked upon as a high misdemeanour, and severely punished : That none should keep any plunder, but deliver it to his officer publickly, and carry it co the place appointed to deposit it: That in case any town, fort, or ship, were taken by storm, the encouragement agreed on at the Island of St. Vincent, mentioned, should be allowed to each man, over and above the gratuity promised by the owners to those that signalized themselves ; but if any party should be engaged with another of the enemy, and defeat them, then all the prisoners, and the arms and moveables about them, should be divided among them only who were in action : All the plunder taken ashore, to be taken aboard by persons appointed for that purpose, and entered in public books, for the satisfaction of all concerned. Those who should commit any disorder ashore, disobey command, quit their post, discourage the men, behave themselves cowardly in any action, burn or destroy any thing without orders, or debauch prisoners, to lose all their shares of the plunder, and be severely punished o- therwise. On the 15th, in the morning, we saw a sail near the snore; and, having little wind, the Date's boat, commanded by Capt. Fry , and the Duchess's, by Captain Cooke, rowed directly for her, going off in such haste, that neither of us had the swivel-guns we used to car ry in the boats, nor our full complement of men, only ten mufquets, four pistols, and not much powder and shot, nor any water -, and rowed very hard to come up with the ship for the space of fix leagues The Duke':. boat coming first near her, she put out Spanifo colours, fired a gun at them, and hpilted a Spanffi flag at the main-top-malt-head : The Duke's, boat then lay by sot us to come up. We saw she was French built, and,by the account the prisoners had given us before, concluded it must be the ship we had been so long cruising for, which was to carry the bishop. Our ships Ueing almost out of sight, and the Spaniards so near L 1 2 th? 267 1709-
s68 WOODES ROGERS, 1709. the coast, and making the best of her way to run.ashore in a sandy bay, we resolved to lav her aboard in each bow, and accordingly made the best of our way, I being then on her weather-quarter, and Captain Fry on her lee : We designed to have told them we were friends, till got out of the way of their stern-chace ; but the Duke's men, thinking the Spaniards had been going to give us a volley, poured in their shot among them, then laid in our oars, and fell to it: The dispute was hot for a long time, we keeping a constant sire, and the enemy answering; who killed two of Captain Fry's men, and wounded one of his, and two of mine. One of the dead men was Captain J.obn Rogers, our second lieutenant, and brother to Captain Rogers , who behaved himself very well during the action. The Duke's boat finding the enterprise too difficult, bore away; and some time after we did the like. Captain Fry having put some of his men aboard us, given us some powder and lhot, and taken in our wounded men, stood away for the ships, whilst 1 made again to the ship, resolving to keep her from the shore, and, rather than fail, to clap her aboard ; the Spa? niards, perceiving what we designed, edged off to sea, and we after them. Our ships came up apace, and we kept close to the Spaniard, sometimes firing at him. The Duchess, being come up, fired a soot or two at him ; and then he struck, and we clapt him aboard. The men begged for good quarter, and we promised them all civility imaginable.. This ship came from Panama, and was bound for Lima, to be fitted out for a man of war, the captain having his commission accordingly. There were seventy blacks, and many passengers, with a considerable quantity of pearls a- board-, the lading, bale-goods, and something be- longing to the bishop; but they had set him on shore, with several passengers, where they touched last. The vessel was about 270 tons burden, commanded by Don Joseph Arizaheila , who told us the bishop had been landed at Point St. Helena, and gone by land to Gut a-
to MAGELLANIC A, &c 2 69 quit. We found several guns in the hold, for the ship 17° 9 - could carry twenty-four, but had only fix mounted. Many of the passengers were considerable merchants at Lima , and the briskest Spaniards I ever saw. When the French had this vessel, she was called la Lime d'Or , the Golden moon. Captain Cooke (whose account we follow) remained aboard her, sending the captain and prisoners to our ships. On the 21st in the morning, the Beginning was sent a-head towards Point sdrena, on the island of Puna ., for fear of any danger; but site found there only an empty vessel riding close under the point: She proved to be a new Spanijb bark, that had been sent to load salt; but the men having sight of us, thought proper to abandon her: All apprehensions were now totally removed, and, at five in the afternoon, the transports rowed for the town of Guiaquil , and at eleven saw a light in the town; whereupon we rowed as easy as could be, soy fear of discovery, till within a mile of ity then heard a centinel call to another, talk some time, and bid him bring fire. Perceiving we were discovered, we rowed over to the other side, against the town, saw a fire made where the centinels talked, and, soon after, many lights all over the town : And, at the wa- ter-side, heard them ring the alarm-bell, fire several volleys, and light a fire on the hill where the beacon was kept, to give the town notice that we were come up the river. .Hereupon the boats came to a grappling, and such an hot dispute arose among some of our chief officers, that they were heard ashore; but the Spaniards , not understanding what they said, fetched an Englijhnan , and conducted him along the shore, to interpret what they heard. However, before he came, the dispute was over. This account we had from that very Englijhman y who afterwards came over to us, and proceeded in the voyage. A council was held in the stern of one of the boats, to resolve whether we should land immediately, or stay tillday-break; and the officers differing in their opinions, it was a- greed,
r/s WOODES ROGERS, 1709. greed, since we did not know the ground, and the barks were not come up, which had near half the men and artillery, to stay till day-lighr, when it was hoped the barks would join ; and fell a little way down the river to meet them, hearing several musquet-lhots in our way, which, at first, we thought might be from the Spaniards along the shore. On the 22d, at break of day, we saw one of our barks at anchor close under the shore, within a mile of the town, and at flood, the other coming up the river; then rowed back to the bark which had fired those mufquets at some fishermen passing by, whom we took. When all our forces were joined, we held a council in the pinnace, proceeded up the river, and sent a flag of truce with the captain of the French built ship, the governor!r of Puna, and another prisoner; then towed up the barks a- breast against the town, and came to an anchor. When the captain of the French built ship came to the corregidor, or mayor of the town, he asked otir number, which the captain magnified. The corregidor answered, They were boys, and not men: And the captain replied, He would find they were men-, for they had fought him bravely in their open boats, though he had killed one of the commanders brothers, and wounded and killed others ; and, therefore, advised him to a- gree for the ransom of the town, for, though he had 300*1 men, he would not be able to withstand them : To which the corregidor replied, My horse is ready. On the 23d, having towed the barks close up before the town, and brought them to the pinnace, went up the river after some vessels, and brought fix of them to an anchor by our barks; we also took possellion of two new vessels, of about 400 tons each ; then went ashore with a flag of truce-, and the governour came on bo^rd one of the prizes, to agree about the ransom of the town and ships : It could not be then concluded, but promised to meet the captains again at seven in the evening-, yet he was not so good as his word. 'J'he boats wen * up the river again to fee for move ships,
to MAGEL LANICA , &c. 271 ships, and returned without finding any: However, 1709, we took several canoes, with some plate on board. On the 24th in the morning, the governour came off - again to treat: Our captains thought to have seized him, because he had forfeited his word in not returning over night, and sending word that morning, that he had more people come into the town; but he, alledging that it was contrary to a flag of truce, was set on shore again, and an hour's time given him to get his men ready. However, the boat went and came two or three times with the flag of truce ; but the governour and captains not agreeing, all things were made ready, and towed nearer the shore, wearing our union jack at our main-top-mast-heads. At four in the afternoon, the men landed, with so much bravery, that the Spaniards fired only their first volley, and fled, our people pre fling them, and pursuing them to their cannon, which they soon gained, only the gunner, who was an Irijhman, standing by them till he was wounded in four places, whereof he died soon after, as we were informed by some prisoners we took. Our ' men marched in a body through both towns, driving out the enemy, placed three guards in the three churches, and set fire to five or six houses in the old town, that stood adjoining to the wood, lest the Spaniards should have any cover from them to annoy our guard, which was within pistol-shot. All this night they kept firing out of the woods at our centinels, or any other, that stirred out of the guard, yet did no harm ; several parties of horse and foot came down, without making any attempt: In the mean while the Duchess 's pinnace, which was commanded by Lieutenant Connely , with twenty-two men, went up the river, landed at every house, took their plate, and what else of value they found, and had some skirmishes with the enemy, in which one of our men was wounded. On the 25th the enemy appeared thick in the woods, sometimes coining out; and our guards had some skirmishes with them, in which one man was wounded, so
1709. so that they expected to be attacked. In the night, '^ r - > one of our centinels {hot another of ours, who was going a little way from his post, and did not answer when challenged three times. Our first lieutenant's pistol went off by his tide, and wounded him in the leg; and another of our men was shot through the foot by one of our people. Our surgeon cut off a man's arm, who had been hurt with one of our grenade-fhells, which broke in the bark when fired out of a cohorne. The afternoon was spent in shipping off provisions from the town, and disposing all things, in cafe we should be attacked in the night, the enemy appearing about the out-houses -, for which reason, the captains thought fit to join all the forces at the main-guard, where they had their cannon mounted. On the 26th in the morning, Captain Courtney marched to his guard again, to cover the men who were getting down provisions, &c. Several prisoners were taken, and brought to the main- guard. Messengers, with a flag of truce, came about ransoming the town, but could not agree : In the.afternoon brought one boat of provisions aboard the barks •, and at three returned, to ransom the town, which was at last agreed on for 30,000 dollars; we to have three hostages, and to stay at Puna till they could raise the said sum, the'people having carried their money out of town, and being so dispersed, that there was no raising it whilst we were there, the inhabitants of the adjacent country having withdrawn all their effects. On the 27th in the morning, the hostages for ransom were put on board, as was a boat's lading of brandy: We took down our union-flag, and hoisted a flag of truce, firing a gun for a signal, that the Spaniards might come into the town, and that no hostilities should be committed on either side during the time we had agreed to flay for the money, having before concerted with the Spaniards to make the said signal for them to come in to secure what we had left, that the Indians and Blacks might not rob : And, I am apt to believe, they had plundered as mitch as we had taken;
to MAGELLANIC A, &c. 273 for we took several, as we went the rounds, laden with 1709. goods, which they owned they had stolen; and were afterwards informed, that, in the hurry, the inhabitants had given plate and money to Blacks to carry out of the town, and could never hear of it after. In the evening, Mr. Hajley , and Mr. Duck , were sent from the ships in the last prize, and the Beginning galley, to the Island Puna , for water, of which there begun to be want on board ; and with instructions to go up the fiver, to get intelligence of the forces on shore, we at sea having heard nothing from them since their departure, and the prisoners saying, they were certainly all cut off; which was but little regarded, any farther than to keep a strict watch over them. In the afternoon, the men ashore went aboard the barks, which carried them, and some others we had taken, up the river : At six weighed, and rowed off the shore. On the 28th, in the morning, our barks weighed with the first of the ebb, the Duke's pinnace making the best of her way down to the ships, and the float going ashore to fetch off the great guns, then weighed, and fell down the river. Two of the barks ran a ground on the middle Ihole, that lies right against the island. In the evening they we're afloat again; then we towed them over on the starboard-side, where the channel was, firing a gun for the rest to weigh ; and, at the last of the ebb, came to an anchor about a mile from the island, and saw the Beginning , and another vessel, under the shore, whither they were come for water ; took water out of the barks, and put into the Begin - ning, and dispatched her to the ships. On the 29th in the morning, the barks weighed, and got down to Puna, where they anchored o^f the town. Captain Rogers, in the Duke's pinnace, came on board, and gave an account, that they had taken, plundered, ants ransomed the town of Guiaquil-, that three of our men had been killed ; two by our own people, and one by the Spaniards ; and four wounded : That the inhabitants, while treating, had carried off their money Vol. JU. M m and
4 WOOD ES ROGERS, *7 ° 9 - and plate, retiring to the woods, and leaving their guns, four whereof were taken, with a considerable 1 quantity of meal, pease, sugar, brandy, and wine, which was coming down in the barks. What we killed and wounded of the enemy could not be known, because they carried them off. The same day Hugh Tid-* corahs who was shot by his fellow-centinel, died. Having from the fhip-side discovered a fail standing up the river, with the tide of stood; we lent both ihips boats after her, and, at four in the afternoon, sire struck to the boats. They brought her in at night. She was a small Spanish bark from Cheripe, and bound up to Guiaquil, having on board 330 bags of meal, and 140 arrobas, that is, 35 hundred weight of sugar, some onions, quince, and pomegranates : This, with the six barks, and two great strips ransomed with the town of Guiaquil, makes fourteen prizes taken in those seas. Captain TVocdss Rogers , in his relation, blames Captain Courtney for being in a hurry to quit the place, though he acknowledges, that his Lieutenant, Mr. Streton, was sirot by accident in his leg, his own pistol going off unluckily, which rendered it necessary to send him instantly on board the small craft; and that most of their men were grown careless, weak, and heartily weary of their new trade of being soldiers. One circumstance he mentioned, which deserves notice foe its singularity. As he was marching out of the town, he happened to miss one John Gabriel , a Dulth- man , who served in his own company ; and took it for granted,'that he was either taken or killed. 13 ut the poor fellow had a better time of it: He happened to take up his quarters in a certain house, where there was some excellent brandy ; which the Dutchman attacked so often, that, at last, it laid him on the floor; and in this condition he was, when Captain Rogers and his men quitted the place. A little after, the master of the house returned, and found the Dutchman stretched at his full length, and so fast, that it was a difficult matter
to MAGELLANIC A, &c. 27.; fnatter to distinguish whether he was dead or asleep. 1700-. The Spaniard resolved to make the experiment; but, w '"' first of all, called in his neighbours, who advised hirst to secure the Dutchman's arms; which being done without any difficulty, they next raised him up, and set him on his feet, when, after a little tottering, hd opened his eyes, and began to stare about him, being sensible that we was not asleep, and not very well satisfied to find himself awake, and in such company. His landlord, however, soon set his heart at rest, by restoring him his arms, and advising him to make all the haste he could to join his companions, who were not yet embarked. There did not need many entreaties to set the Dutchman forward ; he moved with all the alacrity imaginable, and got safely aboard. If this story be a little strange, Captain Rogers adds an observation, that is still stranger, which is, that, of all the men who landed on this occasion, there was not a foul that drank a cup too much, but this poor Dutchman which if true, the town of Guiaquil had the honour to be plundered by the soberest set of people that ever were of their profession. But it is now time to come to the forms of capitulation, which the Spaniards , as persons most deeply interested in it, desired might be drawn up in proper form and so they were, with the omission only of a single circumstance; viz. that the place was taken by force of arms, which, the Spaniards insisted, should be particularly specified, to demonstrate that they had been beaten, before they consented to treat; and to this the Englijh very willinglv yielded, which produced the following scheme of articles, which satisfied both parties, procuring one the money they wante.d, and satisfying the other as to the point of honour; a thing no Spaniard ever willingly gave up. Ccnlxa.il M m 2
6 L7§ WOOPES ROGERS* 1709. Contrast for the Ransom os the Town os Guiaquil. C < c I < t £ < " < " L " < C " W Hereas the city of Guiaquil, lately in subjection to Philip V. King of Spain , is now taken by storm, and in the posteflion of the Captains Thomas Dover , IVcodes Rogers, and Stephen Courtney, commanding a body of her Majesty of Great Britain's subjects ; we the underwritten are content to become hostages for the said city, and to continue in the custody of the said Captains Thomas Dover, fVoodes Rogers, and Stephen. Courtney, till 30,000, pieces of eight shall be paid to them for the ransom of the said city, two new strips, and six barks; during which time no hostility is to be committed on either side between this and Puna ; the said sum to be paid at Puna, in six days from the date hereof; and then the hostages to be discharged, and all the prisoners to be delivered immediately : Otherwise the said hostages do agree to remain prisoners, tils the said sum is discharged in any other part of the world. In witness whereof, we have voluntarily set our hands this 27th day of April, O. S. and the 7th of May, N. S. in the year of our Lord 1 709.' The plunder we took here, exclusive of the ransom we received for the town, was very considerable; for we found there 230 bags of flour, beans, peas, and rice; fifteen jars of oil; i60 jars of other liquor; some cordage, iron-ware, and imall nails; with about four half jars of powder; about a ton of pitch and tar; a parcel of doathing and necessities; and, as I guess, about izoo 1 . in plate, ear-rings, &c. and 150 bales of dry goods ; four guns, and about 200 Spa- niflo ordinary useless arms and musquet-barrels ; a few packs of indico, cocoa, and anotto; with about a ton of loaf-sugar. We left abundance of goods in the town, besides liquors of most sorts, and lea-stores, with several warehouses full of cocoa, divers snips on the stocks, and two new stops unrigged, upwards of 400 tons,
to MAGELLANIC A, &e. 277 tons, which cost above 80,000 crowns; and then lay 1705* at anchor before the town. We were also to deliver four barks ashore, and leave two here, to bring down the ransom. By this it appears, the Spaniards had a good bargain ; but this ransom was far better for us, than to burn what we could not carry off. The hostages informed us, that, during the treaty, 80,000 pieces of eight of the king's money were sent out of the town, besides their plate, jewels, and other things of the greatest value; so that it is certain, that, if we had landed at first, and given them no time at all, we had been much greater gainers than we were ; and I have great reason to believe, that we might, in that cafe, have made 200,000 pieces of eight, in ready money, plate, and jewels -, and yet the place had never been so poor for forty years past as at the dine we took it, there having been a fire about a year and an half before, which had burnt down best part of the town, and occasioned a very great expence in rebuilding it. As it was, we thought ourselves very happy ; and all imaginable care was taken, that every man concerned in the expedition found his account in it - t by which the expediency of the articles before-mentioned fully appeared ; and our people were so perfectly satisfied with the usage they received on this occasion, that they expressed the greatest alacrity in the execution of every enterprise that was afterwards undertaken. To fay the truth, this is a matter of the utmost importance with privateers ; for, if the men have the least jealousy of their being ill-treated, such disputes arise as do infinitely more mischief than the value of what can be gotten by such practices. But to proceed with our affairs : When May 2d came, which was the last day appointed to wait for the money, and no boat arriving, we began to be very uneasy. At length, however, a boat arrived, and brought us 22,0co pieces of eight; which we received, and dispatched the b; at back again, telling them we designed to leave the psoce the next morning, and would carry away the s '' hostages,
WOODES ROGERS, 1709. hostages, if they did not come time enough to prevent v " v '"' it. We if aid, however, till the 6th; and then Captain Courtney was resolved to depart, being apprehensive, that we should be attacked by the French and Spanijh squadron. I endeavoured, but in vain, to convince him, that, as yet, we were not in any danger of being attacked ; because it was not possible, that the French and Spaniards could have received notice by this time at Lima , and have fitted out a force sufficient to engage us. We sailed however, and came to an anchor, about four in the afternoon, a few leagues before Point Arena. The next morning about two o'clock, we were preparing to fail, when Mr. Morels and a gentleman from Puna related to our prisoner?, brought us 3500 pieces of eight more towards the ransom. This put us in so good an humour, that, in the afternoon, we discharged all our prisoners, except the Morels , the three hostages, and three or four more. The gentleman, that came from Guiaquij had a gold chain, and some other things of value, with which he bought our bark the Beginning , which was now of no farther use. We gave the Captain of the prench ship three Negro- women; Mr. Morel , another; and, to most of the prisoners, their wearing-apparel ^ so that we parted very good friends. They told us, that pne Don Pedro Cienfuegos , whom we put ashore at Puna , and who was a man of great credit, had got together a considerable sum of money, and designed to buy goods of us; for which purpose he would be down in twelve hours time : But the majority of our officers would not believe them ; but, conceiving this to be a scheme for detaining us till the French and Spanijh fleet came, were in so much the greater hurry to get away. But, before we proceed, let me give you a short description of the town of Guiaquil\ as we found it. Cuiaquil is divided into two parts, called the Old and the New Towns ; both of them together consisting of about 500 houses, joined by a long wooden bridge, for people to pass over on foot, above half a mile in length,
to MAGELLANIC A; &c. ijg length, with some houses on each side at a distance. It 1709° is situated in a low boggy ground, so dirty in winter, w "- / that, without this bridge, there would be scarce any going from one house to another : 'shere is but one regular street along the river-side to the bridge, and from it along the Old Town. Before the church of St. Jago is a very handsome parade; but the church itself lies in ruins. There are, in all. four churches, viz. St. Jago, or St. James the Apostle, which, as I said, is destroyed; St. Augujlin , St. Francis , and St. Dominic ; and before this last another parade, with an half-moon, on which six guns may be planted ; but there were none when we came. Besides these, there is a chapel, and there had been a church of St. Ignatius. , belonging to the Jesuits, but burnt down. They were all decently adorned with altars, carved work, pictures, an organ in that of St. Augujlin ; but the plate belonging to them was carried away, the priests and students being all gone into the woods: Some of the houses were of brick, particularly about the parade, before the sire; the rest of timber, or bamboes split, and some of them decently furnished. In the merchants storehouses, there were great quantities of meal, brandy, sugar, cloathing, cordage, and iron. The inhabitants had some calashes; but I know not of what use they could be, unless to carry them a storie's-throw to church; especially in winter, all about being so foul and boggy, that there could be no road rn.de for them. This morass-ground was full of the largest toads I ever saw, some of them as big as an Englifrj two-penny loaf. There were 2000 inhabitants of all forts, including Indians, Mulattoes, and Blacks. The Enghjbmen, who had lived in the town, told us that the December before, When they had made public rejoicings for the birth of the Frince of AJhirias , which lasted - three weeks, they had mustered 1100 foot, and 500 horse, all in arms, which came from the country round about; Desides a much greater number unarmed, the greatest part whereof must have been Indians.
28 b WOODES ROGERS, 1709. Indians. They baited 200 bulb to death aster the Spanish fashion, and ran at the ring with their spears % both which exercises they are very expert in, and much addicted co. The Sunday before we landed, they had launched one of the hew (hips in presence of the bishop ; who asked what they might cost building, and was told, the one 40,000 dolars, the other more; both of which designed to trade to Chili ; and orders were given not to employ the carpenters about any other work, till the king's two ships, then expected from Lima, were rebuilt. This town is well seated for trade, and for building of ships, as lying fourteen leagues from Point Arena , and seven from Puna , up a large river, which receives several small ones that fall into it, with many villages and farm-houses round about. The water is fresh for four leagues below it; and all along the bank grows abundance of mangroves and farfaparilla ; and, on account of this latter, the water is accounted good for the French disease: However, when the floods come down from the mountains, the water is not reckoned so wholesome, by reason it brings along several poilonous plants and fruits, among which is the Manchinilla venomous apple, whereof all birds that taste die ; and we saw hundreds of them dead on the water whilst we were there. They have great plenty of beeves, goats, sheep, hens, ducks, Muscovy ducks, and some sores unknown to us in England ; as also horses, and great numbers of carrion-crows, which the Spaniards will not suffer to be killed, preserving them to devour all carrion. The ships here are built under sheds, to shelter the men from the sun. The town is governed by a corregidor, being the supreme magistrate appointed by the king. At our coming, the officer was one Don Jeronimo Bos , a young man about twenty-four years of age, born in the Canaries. It may seem a little extraordinary, that so young a man should be intrusted with such a command but it is to be considered, that native Spaniards , for so such are accounted
28k to MAGELLANIC A, tic. accounted that are born in the Canaries , have much 1709. earlier titles to honour, than persons born in this coun- w '~' try; and, indeed, by the regularity of the Spanijb go- governmenr, it is no hard matter for a young man, of a reasonable capacity, to perform the functions of it with credit to himself, and so as to give satisfaction to the people. The accounts which have been given of this place by the French buccaneers are so false, that there is not the least degree of truth in them; insomuch that, from their descriptions, it scarce appears to be the fame place, had they not left infamous marks of their being here: For when they took the town of Guiaquil, about twenty-two years ago, they discovered little or no bravery in the attack, (though they lost a great many men) and committed a deal of barbarity and murder after they had the place in their power, which was above a month, here and at Puna. The seasons here are improperly called Winter and Summer : The Winter is reckoned from the beginning of December to the last of May and all that season is sultry hot, wet, and unhealthy : From the latter end of May to December is serene, dry, and healthy, but not so violently hot as what they call Winter. Their cocoa is ripe, and mostly gathered between June and August ; and of the other fruits, natural to those climates, some are ripe, and others green, all the year. But, as our prisoners furnished us with a very full and exact account of all the adjacent country dependent on the government of Guiaquil, 1 have judged it requisite to add to tiiis account ot the town, a view likewise of the province, that the reader may perfectly apprehend the condition of the Spanish inhabitants therein ; and judge from thence, as from a sample, of the state of this great empire of Peru at the time that we were thus engaged in attacking its ports and coast ; where we acted as became men who had legal commissions, and did nothing that was not justified by the law of arms, which, in time of war, is the law of nations. Having Vol. 111. N n done
282 WO ODES ROGERS, 1709. done this, 1 shall return to our expedition, and noC trouble the reader with any digressions for the future. The city or town of Guiaquil is the metropolis of a province of that name in Peru, governed by a presi- •dent, with five or six Ot odors, which make a royal Au- dienci-a , or chief court of judicature, accountable only to the viceroy in military affairs ; every province has a government of the fame nature. The governours are commonly appointed, or, to speak more properly, purchase their officers in Old Spain , for life, or good behaviour; and in cafe any die, or misbehave themselves, the viceroy may name another during his time, which ought to be but five years-, but sometimes he gets these officers of his own placing confirmed by an order from Spain , which is a considerable part of the Viceroy's unknown prosits. The late viceroy continued fourteen years, several new ones having died by the way. The King of Spain himself scarce lives in more splendour, than his viceroy in the city of Lima , where the chief courts of judicature arc kept, and appeals are brought thither from all courts and provinces of this extensive kingdom. I should not here mention the vast wealth the late viceroy obtained during his government, the sum being so large, that I thought it fabulous; but that I was informed of it by io many hands, who told me, that about four years ago he died, worth, at least, 8,000,000 pieces of eight ; and- left it to his widow and children, but the greatest part to his eldest son, the Conde de la Monclo, besides vast sums he gave away in charity during his life-time, and the churches, friaries, and nunneries that he built. He left a better character behind him, than any viceroy had done for an age past. The Conde , his eldest son, waits here, expecting to succeed the present viceroy of Peru or Mexico, if the government holds in Old Spain ; but the people hope he will follow his father's example, rather than that of the present viceroy : For whereas all former governours discouraged foreigners as
to MAGELLANIC A, eVc. 283 as much as possible, to secure the trade to the Spa- 1709. niards , the present viceroy does all for the French ; for w ''' he only espouses their interest, and encourages them ; whereas the Spaniards fay, that he racks, and heavily oppresses their own countrymen. The corregidor thae last died at Guiaquil, though he had possessed the office but four years, had amassed 300,000 pieces of tight, though his post was not allowed to exceed above 2000 pieces of eight per annum -, but all the corregidors make vast advantages by fizures, and trading privately by themselves. The trade to and from Mexico is forbidden here, under the severest penalty; elpecialiy transporting quicksilver from Peru thither, because quantities are brought from Old Spain , which is imposed on the refiners at great rates. Here are many ships employed coasting in this kingdom ; but a trade is so severely prohibited between them and Mexico , that all the commodities, with silver and gold in returns, may have little other circulation in these vast countries, but by the flota and galleons to and from Old Spain. Yet, notwithstanding the severity used against private traders by the viccroys and corregidors, there are some that use it, who have no mercy shown them, if caught, all being seized in the king's name, though his Majesty has little or no share of it, all such seizures (as I am told) being divided amongst those officers, and the poor sufferer banished, or confined to a gaol. All EngliJJj and Dutch goods, except what comes by the galleons, are prohibited here ; so that the private traders, after they have, by stealth, purchased them in the North Seas, must vend them in like manner all over Peru, And if the wholesale merchants have not a good certificate from the commerce of Seville , that their commodities come by the flota or galleons, whenever the goods are questioned, they must discover them, for fear of worse punishment, unless they have a good interest in the Viceroy, which costs dear to purchase and preserve; so that the trader makes little N n 2 profit,
-84 WOODES ROQERS, 1709. profit, but where the chief officers have a feeling: wv Yet, though those mercenary Viceroys are so severe on others, they themselves employ the Corregidors to negotiate a trade for them by a third hand, which cannot be done to the purpose without being publicly known j so that ships are constantly employed on their account, and carry quicksilver, and all manner of prohibited goods, to and from Mexico , out of bye- ports. Thus, being their own judges, they get vast estates, and stop all complaints in Old Spain by bribes. The goods they trade for have a free passage, and fail through the continent; whilst others, if they do but offer at it, are punished as above. Their other ways of getting money unjustly are too many; but, in short, in my opinion, there is no country naturally more rich, nor any people more terribly oppressed. The Spaniards fay, and, I believe, not without reason, that a Viceroy, after purchasing his place with all that he has, and quitting Old Spain as poor as Job, comes hither like an hungry lion, to devour all that he can; and that every officer under him in the provinces (who are ten times more than necessary) are his jackals to procure prey for him, that they may have a share of it themselves. The provice abounds with several sorts of good timber, which makes it the chief country of Peru for building and repairing of ships j there is seldom less than six or seven at a time on the stocks before the city of Guiaquil. The chief commodity this city, and its chief province, afford, is cocoa, which is so plentiful, as to supply most places of the South Sea; they fay, there is never less exported in a year than thirty thousand cargaus, each cargau eighty- one pounds weight, and sometimes double the quantity : It was purchased generally at half a rial per pound, but now much cheaper, so that the cargau may be bought for two pieces of eight and a half. Their coasting trade is for salt and salt-fish from Point Santa Helena and most vended at Quito, and other distant places within land : A vast quantity of timber is laden
to MAGELLANIC A, & e . 285 laden here for Truxilo , Ckana, Lima , and other sea- i/° 9 * ports, where it is scarce. It pays a great freight, and w "'* is a profitable trade. They export also from hence rice, cotton, and some dried jerked beef. There are no mines of silver or gold in this province, but plenty of all sorts of cattle, and very cheap, especially on the Island Puna, where we supplied ourselves with what we could conveniently. Here is no other corn but Indian ; so that all their flour is brought from Truxillo , Cheripe , and other places in the windward parts: It blows here always southerly. They are also supplied with several sorts of woollen cloth, and very strong good baize made at Quito. Their wines, brandy, oil, olives, and sugar, &c. come from Fiscal a, Nasca , and other places to windward : All sorts of European goods come hither from Panama , whither they are brought over land from Porto-Bcllo out of the North Seas; so that the number of ships that come and go from hence, without including coasters, are no less than forty fail every year ; which shows, that the Port of Gniaquil is no mean place of trade in this part of the world. A market is also kept on bark-logs and boats in the river, every day, before the town, with all that the country affords, in great plenty. The other towns of the province are governed by lieutenants, deputed by the Corregidor; above half of them border on the fame river, and its branches ; so that they can join these of the capital in two tides, though at several leagues distance. Porto-Vaco was formerly the metropolis of the province, before the government was re- removed to Guiaquil. In the towns, and the whole province, the Spaniards compute at least 10,000 inhabitants ; but, I believe, there are many more, taking in all the mixed races between the Spaniards , Indians , and Negroes, which they divide and subdivide into eleven denominations. The natural Spaniards are the fewest by far of all the inhabitants; and, were it not for these mixtures, which the fathers of the church keep united, the Indians might again take possession of their
r86 WOODES ROGERS, *7°9- their country , for the Spaniards would be too few to v ' w keep it, and much more ancapable of peopling it. Few of those prisoners that fell into our hands were healthy and found near half of the Spaniards discovered publicly to our doctors their malady, in order to get pnylic from them against the French disease, which is so common here, that they reckoned it no scandal to be deep in the powdering-tub; and, the heat of the country facilitating the cure, they make very light of it. All the Spaniards 1 discoursed allow, that this rich country is not a tenth peopled, nor are half the In- dians , far within land, civilized; though they affirm, their King has, in the Weft-Indies, more subjects of several colours, than in all Spain,- or the rest of his dominions in Europe ; which may be true. On May i ith, we had a strong gale at south-southwest. We bore away for the Gailapagos Islands ; and, in a very melancholy condition we were : for we had up- wards of twenty men taken ill on board the Duke , and near fifty on board our consort seized with a malignant fever, contracted, as I suppose, at Guiaquil , where I was informed, that, about a month or five weeks before we took it, a contagious disease, which reigned there, swept off ten or twelve persons every day for a considerable time ; so that the floors of all the churches (which are their usual burial-places) were filled so fast, that they were obliged to dig a large and deep hole, of about a rood square, close by the great church, where I kept guard; and this hole was almost filled with the corpses half putrefied. The mortality was so very great,, that many of the people had left the town; and our lying so long in the church, surrounded with such unwholesome scents, was enough to infect us too. About this time Captain Courtney was taken ill; and Captain Dover went on board to prescribe for him. In twenty-four hours, we had fifty men down, and in the Duchess upwards of seventy, and, in the following twenty-four hours, there were ten more down in each fliip. On the 17 th, we discovered land; and, on the iSth
to MAG EL LAN! CA. 287 18th at daybreak, we were within four leagues of two i" e 9 " large islands, almost joining together, having palled the other that we saw yesterday. We sent our boat alhore to look for water, and agreed with our consort whereto meet, in case of separation. They turned towards the windward, and left us to try this island for water. All our prizes were to stay near us under fail, by a remarkable rock. But, in the afternoon, the boat returned, with a melancholy account, that no water was to be found, the prizes we expected lying to windward for us by the rock, about two leagues off shore , but Mt. Hat ley , in a bark, and the Havre-de- Grace, turned to windward, after our consort the Duchess-, so that only the galleon, and the bark that Mr. Selkirk was in, staid for us. We kept plying to windward all night, with a light out; which they followed. At five in the morning, we sent our boat alhore again, to make a further search in this island for water. In the evening, the boat returned, and reported, that there was no water to be found, though the people went three or four miles up into the country. They likewise told me, that the island is nothing but loose rocks, like cinders, very rotten, and heavy; and the earth lo parched, that it will not bear a man, but breaks into holes under his feet; which makes me suppose there has been a volcano here, though there is much Ihrubby wood, and some greens, on it; yet there is not the least sign of water ; nor is it possible, that any can be contained on such a surface. In short, we found these islands very little answered either our expectations, or the description we had of them; and our loss of Mr. Hailty , who, with five of our men, two Spanijb prisoners, and three Negroes, lost us in a bark, where they were provided only with water for two days, and scarce any other necessaries, together with many unlucky accidents, made us wisli ourselves from amongst these islands; and therefore, on May 26th, Captain Dover and 1 went on board the Duchess , where, after a consultation, it was resolved to
283 WOOD ES ROGERS, 1709. to run in for the Island Plata to water, and so come! off again, for fear of meeting with two French ships, one of sixty, and the other of forty-six guns, and the Spanijb man of war, who, we were advised, would be suddenly in search of us; but, if we could find no water in any of these islands going in, we designed to fit our ships there, and not go near the main, our ships being out of order, and our men sickly and weak, and several also having been buried. We sailed on the 27th; and, on the 30th, we held another council on board the Duchess, where it waS agreed to go first to Gorgono, to see if there were any English ships there, and afterwards to Mangla, Malaga, or Madulinar t where are some Indians, enemies to the Spaniards, who, as the pilots informed us, seldom came thither, nor could thence get intelligence of us; and, if we could trade with the Indians, might have swine and fowls, good bananas, plantains, and other refreshments. In this course the Duchess took a prize, which proved to be a vessel of the burden of ninety tons, bound from Panama to Guiaqilil , called the St. Thomas de Villa No* DS, Juan Navarro Navaret commander. There were about forty people aboard, including eleven Negro slaves; but little of Eltropean goods except some iron and cloth. The next we made the island of Gorgona ; and, on the 8th, our boats brought in another prize, which was a small bark, of about fifteen tons, called the Golden Sun. She belonged to a creek on the main, and was bound for Guiaqv.il, Andros Enriques master, with ten Spaniards and Indians, and some Negroes; no cargo but a very little gold dust, and a large gold chain; together about 500 pounds value, which were secured aboard the Duchess, On June 19th, in the evening, there was a consultation on board the ship above-mentioned, at which some of my officers, and Captain Dover , assisted. Being discomposed, I was not then with them; but resolved to act in consort- ship, according to their agreement. After they had examined the prisoners, they resolved to go to Malaga ,* an
to MAGELLANICA. 289 an island which had a road, where we designed to leave 1709* our stiips, and, with our boats, row up the river for the rich gold mine of Barbacore , called also by the Spaniards the mines of St. Juan , from a village about two tides up the river, of that name. There we designed to surprise canoes, as fitter than our boats to go against the stream ; for this time of the year being subject to great rains* which make a strong frelh down the river, our pilot* an old Spaniard , did not propose to get up to the mines in less than twelve days. I had often before suspected his knowledge -, but, according to their resolutions on board the Duchess , we made fail about twelve o' clock that night, and steered northeast for the place. In the morning, I discoursed Captain Morel , aS I had done several times before, and all the rest of the prisoners* who agreed, that this island called Malaga was in unfrequented place, and not fit for strips, that ever they heard of. 1 had also two prisoners ott board, that were taken in the last prke, who had been at the said istand very lately, I examined them separately, and they agreed, that a strip could not be safe there; and that, the place being so narrow, it was impossible to get in but with the tide, Which ran very strong ; that the entrance was full of shoals, and had not water enough, but at spring-tides, for our ships to get out or in : besides that, if a strip gets loose, (as we must moor head and stern) stre would turn all adrift, and very much endanger the whole. They added, that the river was so narrow, before we could get to the mines, that the Indians and Spaniards might fell trees across, and cut off our retreat, there being thick woods on the banks of the river, from whence the Indians would gall us with their poisoned arrows ; for those about the mines were at amity with the Spaniards , and a bold and very numerous people. Upon this information, I was surprised that the council had not informed themselves better, before they resolved on going to this place, and immediately sent Mr. White our linguist, with the two prisoners, Vol, III. p o on I
-90 WOOD ES ROGERS,- 1 7°9- on board the Duchess, to undeceive Captain Courtney? K -^ rJ and his officers, and to desire his company, with some of the rest, without loss of time, that we might agree how to act for our safety and interest, and not to proceed farther on this hazardous enterprize. On a solemn consultation, this was accordingly resolved ; and, in compliance of that resolution, we came back to Gorgona , our condition being so bad at this juncture, that, if we had been attacked,, we should scarce have been in a condition to have defended ourselves. On the 13th of June, about four in the morning, we anchored in forty fathoms, and resolved to careen the Duchess first, and then the Duke ; our sick we removed aboard the Galleon , and the sick officers on board the Havre de Grace , where they had all the cop- veniencies we could afford them. We likewise set up a tent ashore for the use of the armourer, and cooper's crew, and directed a place to be cleared for our sick mens tents; all which was performed with such diligence, that, by the 28th, we got our provisions on board, mounted all our guns, having, in fourteen days caulked our ships all round, careened,, rigged, and stowed them again both fit for the sea ; which was great dispatch, considering what we had to do was in an open place, with few carpenters, and void of the usual conveniencies for careening. The Spaniards, our prisoners, being very dilatory sailors, were amazed at our expedition •, and told us, they usually take six weeks, or two months, to careen one of the King's snips at Lima, where they are provided with all necessaries, and account it good dispatch. On the 29th, we sot up a tent on shore for the sick, who were, even by this time, much better than when we came to the island, notwithstanding the Spaniards represented it as extremely lick and unwholesome; but the bare lying ashore, having their doctors with them, and an opportunity of walking about when they grew a little iaettcr, had so good an effect, that, while our sound men
to MAGELLANIC A, &c. 291 men were employed in fitting our ships for sea, oun 7 ° 9 - frck men gathered strength enough to return to their '^ rJ duty. Our Spanijh prisoners went into the woods with us, shewed us timber that was proper to be cut, and gave us every other kind of assistance in their power. We not only set up coopers and armourers tents, but now set out ground for a rope-yard, erected a tent for a smith, another for a block, the third for a sail- maker; and each had his crew to act under him, for the better dispatch of business. It is not to be supposed, that these people were all excellent in their professions; but, however, they made a shift to carry on things very well for our work, necessity and practice having taught them many resources, which the ablest man, in their branches of business, would never have thought of, or, perhaps, could have been brought to believe practicable, if they had been told of them by others. By this method of acting, we had settled not only a plantation, put a manufacture, on the little island of Gorgona-, and, as every officer had his charge,, and surveyed a particular sort of artizans, we had business enough upon our hands, and were all thoroughly and pleasantly employed. Our Spanijh prisoners looked on with amazement at our working from break of day till night in that climate, and in that manner; and, what most of all surprised them, was our finding out some new expedient, when pressed by new difficulties, and when, in the judgement of our Spaniards , it was impossible for us to proceed any further ; so that our diligence and success raised our credit with them prodigiously. The natives of Old Spain are accounted but ordinary mariners, but here they are much worse ; all the prizes we took being rather cobbled, than fitted out for the sea ; so that, had they such weather as we often met with in the European seas in winter, they could scarce ever reach a port again, as they are fitted ; but they -sail here hundreds of leagues. The French used her as a victualler, and fold her at Lima , Oo 2 SL
292 WQODES ROGERS, 1709. as they had done several others, for four times thq money they cost in Europe. It is certainly a good method they took, at first trading hither, to bring a. victualling Ihip, with no other goods but provisions and stores, along with them. Generally one of those small stops comes out with two traders; and since in six, nine,, or twelve months time, which they stay in those seas, they expend their provisions, and lessen their men by mortality or desertion, they fell their, victualling ship ; and, being recruited with men and provisions out of her, they return, well victualled and manned, to France; But now they put into Chilis where they sell the remaining part of the cargo, and salt up a new stock of provisions for their homeward- bound pafiage; so that they need bring no more victuallers. While we were here, we agreed together to fit out the Havre de Grace with 20 guns, and put men out of each ship aboard her, under Captain Cooke *s command), resolving to carry her home with us, and make a third Ihip to cruise in our company whilst we were in these seas. This was the great work on which we were employed from the 29thof June to the 9 th of July, when she was completely finished ; and we gave her the name of the Marquis , having provided a good entertainment: We saluted each of the other ships with three huzzas from on board her, distributed liquor among the company, drank her Majesty's and our owners healths, and to our own success, in conjunction with our new consort. We soon after sent two of our main-deck guns aboard the Marquis ; the Duchess did the like; which, with four taken at Guiciqujl, and twelve that were in the ship, made twenty very good ones; the carriages all new, or so well repaired, that they were as good and strong as if mounted in E n ^ ati d- The next thing to be considered was, how to provide her with men : This was very soon fettled; for I agreed to put thirty-five on board her, and Captain Courtney tWenty-six, so that
to MA GEL LA NIC A, &e. her complement was sixty-erne white men, and twenty^7°9r Negroes, Captain Edward Cooke Commander, and our second Lieutenant, Mr. Charles Pope , to command under him. We agreed, that the captain, with his officers and men, should have equal wages with ours in the like posts, to encourage them. The next thing of consequence was to get rid of our prisoners, which began to be a burden upon us, and of no use at all. it was therefore determined, that they should be all set ashore, after trying every method possible to engage them in a scheme for trading with us. We had several times discoursed the two Morels , and Don Antonio , about ransoming the goods, and were in hopes of selling them to advantage, but deferred Coming to particulars till now because we plainly saw, that unless they could have the cargoes under a quarter value, they would not deal with us. I proposed going to Panama , and lying six days as near it as they pleased, till they brought the money we should' agree for, at a moderate rate, provided they left hostages aboard us, whom, on failure, we would carry to England. To this they would have agreed, provided we would take 60,000 pieces of eight for all the prize-goods. Then I proposed their ransoming the galleon, and putting a great part of the goods aboard her, provided one of those three, and another they could procure, would be hostages for the sum. They answered, that neither of them would go hostage to England for the world. I mentioned delivering the galleon and cargo to them here, provided two of them would be hostages to pay us the money at any other place but Panama or. Lima , in six days, if they would give us 120,000 pieces of eight, being the lowest price we would take for all the prizes and goods, Negroes, &c. They told us, that trading with strangers, especially the Ejiglijh and Dutch , was so strictly prohibited in those seas, that they must give more than the prime cost of the goods in bribes, to get a license to deal with
394 1 . 709 - U g ly-■* WOODES ROGERS, with us ; so that they could not assure us of payment, unless we sold the goods very cheap: Therefore, not finding it worth our time, and knowing the danger we must run in treating with them, we desisted, and ordered them all ashore, .still hoping that this would compel the Morels and Navarre to get money for us, and prevent our burning the ships we could not carry away. Some of our people were for keeping several others .when they were first taken, but they were over-ruled; though every body seemed to confess, that had been a better method, because it would have given us a greater opportunity of trading, and of ridding our strips of those goods which were of no value to us here, and served only to hinder our failing. But to proceed: On the 10th of July, we put seventy-two prisoners on board the bark, and, with our two pinnaces, sire sailed for the main. On the 13th, in the morrjing, these vessels returned from landing our prisoners, and brought off seven small black cattle, twelve hogs, six goats, and some limes and plantains, which were very welcome to us. They met with little else of value in the village they were at; and, the others being far up the river, they did not think worth while to visit them. The .country where they landed was so poor, that our men gave the prisoners five Negroes, some baize, nails, &c. to purchase themselves subsis- tanpe. The inhabitants ashore had notice of our taking Guiaquil, and were jealous of our being at this island, because they heard our guns when we fired, in order to scale them after careening. According to the report of our people, our prisoners were not extremely well pleased with the change of their situation, or even with the recovery of liberty, in such a place; and seemed to regret the advantages they enjoyed on board us. To fay the truth of the matter, I verily believe, that Don Antonio the Fleming, Sig. Navarre, and the Morels , did not expect to part with us so suddenly ; but by continuing with us, and knowing we could not
To MAGELLANICA, &c. 295 not carry away all the prizes and goods, they hoped. 1709. we should of course have freely given them what we , 'w>j could not keep : We apprehended that was the principal reason of their not closing with our terms, which were advantageous to them ; besides, should we have been attacked, they believed we must then put them in possession of their ships, which were of no use for fighting. But, to obviate all their hopes of benefiting themselves at this easy rate, without participating of their money, the magnet that drew us hither, I made them sensible, at parting, that, as we had treated them courteously like generous enemies, we would fell them good bargains for whatever money they could bring us in ten days time; but that we would burn what we did not dispose of, or carry away. They begged we would delay burning the ships, and promised to raise what money they could, and return within the time to satisfy us. One of the chief prisoners we now parted with, was Don Juan Cardoso , designed Governour of Baldivia , a brisk man, of about thirty-five years of age; He had served as a Colonel in Spam, had the misfortune to be taken in the North Seas by an English privateer near Porto-Belh, and carried to Jamaica, from whence he was sent back to Perto-Bello. He complained heavily of the usage he met with from the Jamaica privateer; but we parted very good friends; and he returned us hearty thanks, and a stone-ring for a present to one of the Duchess's Lieutenants, that had lent him his cabin while he was sick on board. We allowed liberty of conscience on board our floating commonwealth to our prisoners ; for, there being a priest in each ship, they had the great cabin for their mass, whilst we used the Church of England service over them on the quarter-deck. On the 15th of June, came on board, in a small canoe, one Michael Kendall , a free Negro of Jamaica, who had lived for some time as a slave in the village our people had plundered : He happened not to be there then; but, as soon as he had
i$6 1709. tVOODES liOGERS* had an account of it, he fairly ventured his life to get away to us. From him we received the following remarkable account of an attempt made upon the gold mines, in which he was himself concerned. His relation was to this effect. That j when war was declared at Jamaica, he embarqued under the command of one Captain Edward Roberts , who was joined in commission from the Governour of 'Jamaica , with the Captains Rujh, Gelding , and PilkiHgton. They had 106 men, and designed to attempt the mines of Jago^ at the bottom of the gulph of DaHen. There were more commanders and men came out with them* but did not join in this design. They had been about five months out, when they got near the mines undiscovered. They sailed fifteen days up the river in canoes, and travelled ten days by land afterwards: By this time, the Spaniards and Indians , being alarmed, laid ambuscades, and shot many of them. The enemy having assembled at least 500 men, and the Englijh being diminished to about sixty, including the wounded, the Spaniards sent them a stag of truce, and offered them their lives, after a small skirmish, wherein the Englijh lost four, and the enemies about twelve men. The Englijh , being in want of provisions, quite tired out, and not knowing their way back, agreed to deliver their arms, on condition to be used as prisoners of war. Having thus yielded, the Spaniards and Indians carried them in canoes three days up the river that leads to the same mines they designed to attempt, treated them very well, and gave them the same food that they eat themselves. But the fourth day when they came to a town beyond the mines, and thought all danger had been past, an order came from the chief Spanijh officer to cut them all off, which the Indians and Spanijh troops did, as those poor disarmed wretches fat at victuals : so that, in this barbarous manner, they were all massacred in a few minutes, except a Scotch , a French , and an Englijh boy, with twelve free Negroes, which, at the intercession of a priest,
to MAGELLANIC A, 6 c. 797 priest, they kept for slaves. This man, being one 1709. •of them, happened to be (old first to the mines, where, '^ r ' r * he lays, he cleared at least three pieces of eight a day for his master; and from thence he was fold to this place. We took notice of this to the Morells , who came the next morning with money to ransom what they could of us, putting them in mind of the different treatment they had from us, and how grateful they ought to be for it; which they seemed very readily to acknowledge, and, indeed, behaved, upon all occa* lions, with much honour. We fold them good bargains, it is true ; but, on the other hand, they ran great hazards in trading with us, and trusted us always with their persons and money, at the fame time that we had the effects in our hands they came to purchase. On the 18th, a Negro, belonging to the Ducbejs , was bit by a small, brown, speckled snake, and died within twelve hours, notwithstanding the doctor used his utmost endeavours to save him. There are abundance ot snakes-on this island*, and, the Spaniards fay, some are as thick as the middle of a man's thigh. I saw one as big as my leg, and above three yards long. Their bite proves generally mortal. In the afternoon we had a consultation, and agreed, that the same bark ' we took, belonging to the main, right against this island, sliould be given to the lieutenant's brother that we plundered, and who came over with our bark ; for, being a man in some authority on shore, we hoped this favour would influence them to trade with us whilst we were here. That morning, Messieurs Morell and Navarre went a second time in our bark for money. One of the same sort of snakes, that killed the Negro, was found on our forecastle, as they went off', and killed by our men. We suppose it came aboard on the cable, they being often seen in the water. On the ist of August, the officers we appointed to appraise the plunder, met on board the galleon, and valued the clothing, in order to divide it amongst the Vol. III. P p officers
2 y8 WOODES ROGERS, i 7 ° 9 - officers and men of each, according to their respective shares. On the zd in the afternoon, they made an end of appraising the cloths, at a very low rate, a- mounting to four hundred pounds; and the silver- hilted swords, buckles, snuff-boxes, buttons, and silver-plate in use aboard every prize we took, and allowed to be plunder, at four (hillings and sixpence per piece of eight, amounted to 743 /. 15 r. besides 3 Ib. 12 oz. which was in rings, gold snuff-boxes, ear-rings, and gold chains, taken about prisoners. This I believe an exact account. Early next morning we had like to have had a mutiny amongst our men : The steward told me, that several of them had last night made a private agreement; and that he heard some ringleaders, by way of encouragement, boast to the rest, that sixty men had already signed the paper. Not knowing what this combination meant, or how it was designed, I sent for the chief officers into the cabin, where we armed ourselves, secured two of those mutinous fellows, and presently seized two others : The rellow that wrote the paper we put in irons: By this time, all hands were upon deck, and we had got their agreement from those who were in the cabin: The purport of which was, to oblige themselves not to take their plunder, nor to move from thence, till they had justice done them, as they termed it. There being so many concerned in this design, the Captains Dover and Fry desired I would discharge those in confinement, upon their asking pardon, and faithfully promising never to be guilty of the like, or any other combination, again. The reason we showed them this favour was, that there were too many guilty to punish them at once ; and, not knowing what was designed aboard the Duchess and Marquis , we were of opinion, they had concerted to break the ice aboard the Duke , and the rest to stand ,by them. Upon this, I used all the arguments I could offer, siiowed them the danger and folly of combinations,
to MAGELLANIC A, &c. 299 tions, and exhorted them to believe, they would have 1709* justice done them in England , should any thing teem w '° uneasy to them now, or in the whole cou^e of the voyage ; adding, that we had done all that we could for their good, and would continue our endeavours, not doubting their good intentions, provided they were not misted. With these, and other healing arguments, all appeared easy and quiet, and every man seemed willing to stand to what had been done, provided the gentlemen, that were officers, and not sailors amongst us, had not such large shares, which they alledged was unreasonable; and that they could not possibly, in a privateer, deserve what they were allowed, in proportion to the ship's company. This we did in part yield to, in order to appease these malecontents, by making some abatements on Mr. iVhitd s, Mr. Bath's, and Mr. Vanbrugh's shares; so that we hoped this difficult work would, with less danger than we dreaded, be brought to a conclusion -, for disputes about plunder are the common occasion of privateers quarrelling amongst I themselves, and ruining their voyages. Another paper was drawn up, for every man to swear what cloaths, goods, &c. he had received of the agents, and to restore whatever he had taken without the agents knowledge, in order to a just distribution of the plunder; and everv one was to oblige himself in a penalty of twenty shillings for every shilling value that should be found about him concealed, besides the former penalty agreed on, of losing his share of any prize or purchase, for concealing above the value of half a piece of eight. And, for the encouragement of discoveries, the informer was to have half the penalty, and the protection of the commander. This paper was objected against by several of the officers, who insisted, that there ought to be a greater latitude allowed them to advantage themselves, since they had ventured their lives thither on so difficult an undertaking : Which made us defer signing it till a better opportunity P p 2 for,
i 7°9 for, unless such agreements as these had been constant ly promoted, as occasion required, the temptation of interest would have made us fall into irrecoverable confusions aboard, which generally end in a separation, or worse. Some time after this, I proposed another thing, which, I thought, would prove very advantageous for our owners, and the common interest; and this was, the sending Captain Cocke, in the Marquis , with a cargo of our prize-goods, to the Brajils-, which commission he would have executed. By this I proposed to save our provisions, since he would not have required any great stock for that voyage, and, consequently, might have remained longer in the South Seas. In the next place, I proposed profit; for these goods would have come to an extraordinary market at the Brctsils, and have yielded twice or thrice as much as we could make of them any other way: And, lastly, after securing, in this manner, so considerable an advantage on our voyage, as we must have reaped from the produce of these goods, our ships had been sufficiently provided for attacking the Acapulco ship. But my consorts' did not understand, or at least would not approve, these reasons; and so the project fell to the ground, which they, however, repented afterwards, when it was too late. Or. the 7th, we gave Sig. Mor ell and Navarre their slips, and all the goods we could not carry away, for what money our agents received of them. As for the effects in the bark, we agreed for i 2,000 pieces of eight, which, with 3000 there remained of the old debt for the ransom of Guiaquil made 15,000 in the whole, and which were to be brought in twelve days. Captain Cooke valued the money now on board, for the use of the owners, 20,000 pounds, and the goods at 60,000 pounds. We gave these gentlemen a paper, which might serve to protect them, in cafe they fell into the hands of the Spaniards •, and we intended to have taken an acknowledgement under their hands, as
to MAGELLANIC A, &c. got to the particulars of the bargain but the bark sailed '7°9. away from us in the night. 1 cannot help taking no- tice here of the honourable behaviour of our crew during the time these prisoners were on board, in order to show how much they regarded the credit of their commission, and of their country. Amongst our prisoners taken on board Sig. Navarre' s ship from Pana- ma , there was a gentlewoman, and her family her eldest daughter, a pretty young woman, of about eighteen, was newly married, and had her husband with her. We assigned them the great cabin aboaid the galleon; and none were suffered to intrude amongst them, or to separate their company : Yet the husband (I was told) showed evident marks of jealousy, the Spaniards epidemic disease. But, 1 hope, he had not reason for it amongst us, my third Lieutenant Glendall alone having charge of the galleon and prisoners ; for, being above fifty years of age, he appeared to be the most secure guardian to females, that had the least charms, though all our young men had hitherto appeared modest, beyond example amongst privateers: Yet we thought it improper to expose them to temptations. At this time, Lieut .Conneley, who behaved him self so modestly to the Ladies of Guiaquil , was some days in possession of Navarre' s ship, before we stopped here to remove these prisoners aboard the galleon, where he gained their thanks, and public acknowledgements for his civilities to these ladies; and even the husband extolled him. We had notice these ladies had some concealed treasure about them, and ordered a female Negro, that we took, and who spoke Englijh y to search them narrowly and found some gold chains, and o- ther things, cunningly hid under their cloaths. They had before delivered to Captain Courtney plate, and other things, of good value. We gave them most of their wearing-apparel and necessaries, with three female Mulatto slaves, and parted very friendly. They confesled to our people, who put them on shore, that we had been
Z02 WOODE 5 ROGERS, 1709. been much civiller than they did expect, or believed their countrymen would have been in the like case and sent back the husband with gold, to purchase some goods and two slaves of us. The island of Corgona has been more than once described, and therefore it is needless to trouble the reader with it here; for which reason we shall proceed in the history of the voyage. August r 1 th, we failed, and, the next morning, Came up with a bark which created so much uneasiness ; and put Mr. Selkirk and his crew on board her. As our ships were but very thinly manned, and there was likely to be more action than since we had been in these seas, it was therefore thought adviseable to recruit a little ; which, considering where we were, will seem a little extraordinary: But the mystery will be very soon explained, by my telling the reader, that, on the 16th, we mustered the Negroes on board the Duke, and found them thirty-sive, strong able fellows, fit for service. When they were together, 1 told them, that, if they would behave bravely, and act faithfully, their slavery was at an end; on which thirty-two of them engaged, and desired they might be improved in the use of arms, which some of them already understood; adding, that, if I would allow them arms and powder, these would teach the rest. Upon this, I made Michael Kendall, the Jamaica free Negro, who deserted from the Spaniards to us at Gorgona , their leader; and charged him to be continually exercising them, because I did not know how soon we might meet with an enemy. I took down the names of those that had any; and those that wanted, I bestowed names on them ; and, to confirm our contrast, I made them drink a dram all round, to our good success. At the fame time, I gave them baize for cloaths; and told them, they must look upon themselves as Englishmen , and no more as Negro-siaves to the Spaniards At which they expressed themselves highly pleased. The next morning, we saw a sail ; and both the Duchess and we
to MAGE LLANIC A, &c. 303 ■we gave chace, and took her in an hour's time. She 170-11. was a vessel of seventy tons, and had four and twenty w '" Negroes, men and women, in her. After this, we stood over to the bay of Jecames, where the Indians are free ; and, with mueffado, by the help of a priest, entered on trade with them. On the 27th, we began to heel and clean our fhips-bottoms; and sent several of our best sailors, and two carpenters, to affist the Marquis ashore. Our men kept one half at arms, while the rest loaded the boats, lest the Indians, who are generally treacherous, should watch an opportunity to fall on them. Our people, that came off the shore, took particular notice, that the red paint, with which the Indians were first daubed, was a declaration of war; and, after we had amicably treated with them, they rubbed it off; but still kept their arms. We sent them three large wooden Spanish saints, that we had out of Morell's ship, to adorn their church -, which they accounted a great present: And I sent a feathered cap to the chief Indian's wife; which was likewise very well accepted : And I had a present of bows and arrows in requital. In the mean time, our linguist and prisoner .managed their business beyond expectation, selling very ordinary baize at one piece of eight and an half per yard, and other things in proportion; so that we had provisions very cheap. On September iff, we sailed from thence; and, on the 6th, Captain Courtney , Captain Cooke , and Captain Dumpier , dined on board of me, when Captain Cooke complained of his ship being crank ; and that we need not have tacked so near the shore, since we might easily have fetched the Gallapagos without tacking. All agreed to this, except our pilot, who was positive of seeing other lands about 100 or no leagues from the main, under the equinox. He told us, he was at them formerly, and has described them in one of his voyages; and that those islands we were at, lay to the west of them : But we judged him mistaken, or we had seen them in the
3 o 4 WOODES ROGERS, *709 the last runs to and from these islands. On the 8th, Wnr ' / we ran over and beyond where our pilot affirmed the islands were; so that we all agreed, that the island he was at, when a buccaneering, could be no other but those we were at, and were going to now, the nearest part of them lying 165 leagues to the westward of the main-land. The fame day, we made one of the Gal- lapagos Islands; and, the next day, hoisted out our pinnace: Captain Dover and Mr. Glenddl went in her for the shore. The Duchess's pinnace returned very toon, laden with turtles. In the mean time, we came to an anchor in about thirty fathoms water, about two miles off shore, it being rocky at bottom. In letting go the anchor, the buoy-rope was immediately cutoff, and our ship drove; so chat we thought our cable was alio cut: But, after driving about half a mile, the ship rode very well. In the evening, our boats, that left us after we came to an anchor, returned, laden with excellent turtle. We sent our yawl and some men a- Ihore, to turn these creatures in the night: But to no purpose-, because we afterwards found, they only came ashore in the day. 1 sent our pinnace, and Lieutenant Try, to sound out a better anchoring-place, while we hove up the anchor, and came to sail. Our boat returned ; and, by ten o'clock, we had our ship again to an anchor within less than a mile of the shore, right against a white sandy bay. I went ashore in the pinnace, and carried men to walk round the bay, to get turtles. The island is high, like the rest; but some low land on this side down to the sea. It is very rocky, dry, and barren, without water, like those we had already seen. On the 12 th, I sent to the Duchess , who was at an anchor a good distance from us, to know how they were stocked with turtle. At ten the boat returned, with an account, that they had about 150 land and sea-turtles; but not generally so large as ours. We had no land-turtles as yet; but about 150 lea-turtles. 1 he Marquis had the worst luck. On the
TO M AGEL LANICA, &e. 305 the 13th, the Duchess s people having informed us 1709. where they got their land-turtles, I sent our pinnace, which, at night, returned with thirty-seven, and some salt they found in a pond'; and the yawl brought twenty sea-turtles: So that we were very full of them. Some of the largest of the land-turtles are about 100 pounds weight; and those of the sea upwards of 400. The land-turtles laid eggs on our deck. Our men brought some from the store, about the bigness of a. goose's egg, white, with a large thick shell, exactly round. The creatures are the ugliest in nature; the shell not unlike the top of an old hackney-coach, as black as jet; and so is the outside skin, but shrivelled, and very rough. Their legs and neck are long, and about the bigness of a man's wrist; and they have club-feet, as big as one's fist, shaped much like those of an elephant, with five thick nails on the fore-fe-et, and but four behind ; the head little, and visage small, like snakes; and look very old and black. When at first surprised, they st rink their neck, head, and legs, under their shell. Two of our men, with Lieutenant Stratton, and the trumpeter of the Duchess , affirm they saw vast large ones of this fort, about four feet high. They mounted two men on the back of one of them, which, with its usual flow pace, carried them, and never regarded the weight. They supposed this could not weigh less than 700 Ib. 1 do not affect giving relations of strange creatures, so frequently done by others; but where an uncommon creature falls in my way, 1 cannot omit it. The Spaniards tell us, they know of none elsewhere in these seas ; but they are common in Brafil. On the 15th, we had a fine breeze, came up to the rest, and agreed to ly by, with our heads to the eastward, till midnight, being in fight of the rock where we lost poor Hatley, when last here. On the 16th, at four o'clock in the afternoon, we sent oyir yawl for Captain Cooke and Captain Courtney, with whom we agreed to bear away, seeing so ma- Vol, III Q^q ny
Zo6 WOODES ROGERS, 1709. ny islands and rocks to the westward, we did not care to incumber ourselves among them in the night. By six, we found the remedy worse than the disease, and, at mast-head, could see all low rocks, almost joinig from istand to istand, that we seemed land-locked for three points of the compass, and no way open, but to the south-east, from whence we came; so we resolved to return that way, and made short trips all night, keeping continual sounding, for fear of slioles, and had from forty to sixty fathoms water. In the morn- • ing, we had got far enough to windward to return. "We could havck no observation, the fun being in our zenith, though we found the weather here much colder, than in any latitude within ten degrees of each side the Equator. The Duchess (not being so well provided with turtle as we) sent her boat alhore on another island, where they got her lading of excellent turtle, leaving a vast number on shore that they could not bring away. We had as many on board as we had room for. At seven we all joined, and" agree to lie^by till two in the morning, whence we continued our course, with an easy-sail, till day-break : We were a- breast of the Thoroughfare , where we tried for water the last time. I ordered a gun to be fired at a venture, to see if it were possible Mr. Hatley could be there alive, and then seeing, or hearing us, might make a smoke on shore, as a signal; but we had no such good luck; so that our hopes for him were all vanished, and we finally concluded, that we could do no more for him, than we have done already. The 18th and 19th, we saw several more islands, one of them a large one, which we supposed reached near the Equinoctial, and abundance of small islands betwixt us The 19th at noon, we had an indifferent good Observation, latitude 2 degrees 2 minutes north. We saw in all (lome that we searched, and others that we viewed at a distance at both times) no less than. fifty, but none that had the least appearance of fresh water* i . . . Sig. i
to MAGELLANICA.^c. Z07 Sig. Morell tells me, that a Spanijb man of war, env i 7 ° 9 * ployed to cruise for pirates, was once at an island that '■" yW lies by itself in latitude 1 degree 20 minutes or 30 south ; they called it St. Maria del Aquada, a pleasant island, and good road, full of wood, and plenty of water, and turtle of both sorts, with fish, &c. lying about 140 Spanijh leagues west from the island of Plata : but, I believe, it is at least thirty leagues more* and that it is no other but the same island where Captain Davis, the Enplifh buccaneer, recruited ; and all the light he has left to find it again, is, that it lies to the westward of these islands he was at with the other Buccaneers, which, as I have before examined, can be no other than these islands we have been twice at. We had no occasion to look for this island the second trip, though, I believe, it is easy to find it without farther directions. Here are most forts of sea-birds a- mong these islands, and some land-birds, particularly hawks of several sorts, and turtle-doves, both so very tame, that we often hit them down with sticks. I saw ho sorts of beasts ; but there are guanas in abundance, and land-turtle almost on every island. It is strange how the latter got here ; because they cannot come of themselves, and none of that sort are found on the main. Seels haunt some of these islands, but not so numerous, nor their fur so good, as at Juan Fernandez ; A very large one made at me several times, and, had I not happened to have a pike-staft', pointed with iron, in my hand, I might have been killed by him : 1 was on the level sand when he came open-mouthed at me, out of the water, as quick and fierce as the most angry dog let loose : 1 struck the point into his breast, and wounded him all the three times he made at me ; which forced him at last to retire, with an ugly noise, snarling, and showing his long teeth at me out of the water. This amphibious beast was as big as a large be r. On the first of October we made the main-land Q^q 2 of
3 o8 WOODES ROGERS, 1709.0s Mexico , which Captain Dampier no sooner saw, than he declared, it was in the neighbourhood of that place that he attacked the lesser Manilla ship in the St. George. Our men began to grow ill again, and two of them. dropped down on the deck, occasioned by a kind of scorbutic apoplexy ; but, upon bleeding, they came soon to themselves. The next day we made Cape 60- rientes, which, we knew by our charts. Captain Dam- pier, indeed, had been here but it was a long time ayo, and, therefore, he seemed to know- but little of the matter-, yet, when he came to land in places, he- recollected them very readily. Our business now was,, to look for the islands called Tret Marias , to procure some refreshments; and found this a work of difficulty, being very uncertain as to their situation. On the 4th in the afternoon, Cape Corientes bore east northeast about ten leagues : The next morning, being very clear weather, we discovered two islands at the distance of fourteen leagues, one bearing north-by-west, the other north-by-east. At noon we had an observation, and found ourselves in the latitude of 20 degrees 45 minutes north. The sight of these islands was very satisfactory ; for, though our men had their fill of land and lea-turtle, which kept them from the scurvy, yet I found them weak, it being a faint sort of food, except they had enough of bread or flour with it ■, whereas they had but a pound and a quarter of bread or flour for live men a day; which was done to prolong our stock of bread against we came to live wholly on our salt provisions, and should be then forced to allow more. On the 6th, we sent Lieutenant Fry, in the pinnace, on shore, on the eastermost island, to try whether there was any good road or conveniency for us to recruit there. At nine they returned, and told me, the island had foul ground near half a mile from the shore, bad anchorage, worse landing, and no fresh-wa- ter, but wood enough. A melancholy fate to us, our water growing short. ' We hauled on a wind for the middle
To MAGELLAN IC A, &c. 30 9 middle island, which Captain Damper , I believe, can 17w. remember he was at, when he belonged to Captain Swan , and found water. Having little wind, we sent our boat towards the istand, to view it, before we could get up thither with the ship. The Duchess's people, and our pinnace, had been ashore at several places on the south-east side of the island, and found better water at every place. On the 8 th, those that had been on the island reported, they saw no sign of any peoples being lately there, but found a human lkull above ground , which we supposed to be one of the two Indian Captains Danrpier tells us were left here by Captain Swan about 23 years ago ; for victuals being scarce with these buccaneers, they would not carry the poor Indians any farther but, after they had served their turns, left them to make a miserable end on a desolate istand. We kept a light out all night, and a fire in the istand, that, if the Marquis and bark, who had left company, saw it, and had a gale, they might come into anchor-ground : But, having no fight of them at day-break, I went on board our consort, and proposed my going out to look after them-, but they made light of it, and thought it needless, believing they would be in after us without any assistance. The recruit of cattle, hogs, and plantains, at Fecames , held to the Gallapagos ; and we fed on the turtle ever since, excepting those two last days. This accidental stock of frelh food was some refreshment to our men, and prolonged our stock of European provisions. On the gth, I sent Lieutenant Gkndall to view the other side of the island; and he told me, on his return, that it was much better than this, had several sandy bays, in which he saw the track of many turtle. Upon this intelligence, I sent back the boat thither in the evening, and next morning they came aboard with a full load of turtle, and left another behind them ready turned; and, which was of much greater consequence, they found pretty good water-, whereas what we had hitherto
310 W 00 DES ROGERS, 1709. therto drank was physical, and purged excessively. As w '"' we wooded, watered, and furnished ourselves with fresh provisions here, and as these are places very little known, I shall describe them. The Island of Trtss Marias lie north-west, in a range about four leagues asunder. The largest island is the westermost, which appears to be high double land, and above sive leagues in length ; the middle island about three leagues the longest way; and the eaitermost scarce two leagues : These are also high lands, and full of trees. Near the least island are two or three small, broken, white islands. One of the outermost of these appeared so much like a ship under fail at a distance, that we gave the usual signal for a chace, but soon found our mistake. These islands have abundance of different sorts of parrots, pigeons* doves, and other land-birds, of which we killed great numbers, with excellent hares, but much less than ours: We saw abundance of guanas, and some raccoons - the latter barked and snarled at us like dogs, but were easily beat off with sticks. I think the water more worthy of remark than any think we saw here ; because we found but two good springs, which ran down in large streams near others, that were very bitter and disagreeable, which, 1 suppose, might proceed from shrubs and roots that grow in the water, or from some mineral. The turtle here are very good, but of a different shape from any 1 have seen; and, though vulgarly there are reckoned but three sorts of turtle, we have seen six or seven different sorts at several times, and our people have eat of them all, except the very large whooping or loggerhead-turtle, (as they are called), found in Brasil in great plenty, and some of them above 500 Ib. weight; we did not eat of that fort, because then our provisions were plentiful. Those at the Gal la pagos islands, both male and female, I observed, came ashore in the day-time, and not in the night, quite different from what I have seen or heard of the rest. All that we caught in this island, was by turning
to MAGELLANICA, zir turning them in the night, and were she's, which came 1709. ashore to lay their eggs, and bury them in the dry sand ; one of these had 800 eggs in its belly, 150 of which were skinned, and ready for laying at once. 1 could not imagine, that turtle were six weeks in hatching, as some authors write, considering the fun makes the sand so very hot wherever those eggs are found, and, instead of a (hell, they have nothing but a very thin film : In order therefore to be better informed, I ordered some of our men on shore to watch carefully for one, and suffer her to lay her eggs without disturbance, and to take good yotice of the time and place. Accordingly they did so, and assured me, they found the eggs addled in less than twelve hours; and, in a- bout twelve hours more, they had young ones in them, completely shaped, and alive : Had we staid a little longer, I might have given myself, and others, thorough satisfaction in this quick production of tortoises : From whence 1 am inclinable to credit the report of divers of our sailors, who assert, that where they have found eggs in the sand, and looked for them in three days time after, in the fame place, they found nothing but films: This shows, that the young ones are hatched within that time. They assured me also, that they had observed, more than once, that the young brood run out of the sand every day, directly for the sea, in great numbers, and quicker than the old ones. There was little fish about the shores of this island, and of the fame forts mentioned .at other places in these seas j but the plenty of turtle, at this time, supplied that defect : We, the chief officers fed deliriously here, being scarce ever without hares, turtle-doves, pigeons, and parrots of various sizes and colours: Many had white, or red heads, with tufts of feathers on their crowns. We found good anchor-ground about this middle island, and gradual soundings, from twenty to four fathoms water, close by the shore. Between this and the least island, it is about the lame depth, where we
3 iz WOOD ES ROGERS, 1709. we were: Between them I found no shole, but what was visible; as a rock off the south-west point, and a fhole off the north-east point of the same, with another at a great distance from that point of the least island, but neither runs above half a mile from the shore. On the ist of November we saw high-land, which proved the point of California , or that head-land which the sailors call Cape St: Lucas. It was now necessary to put in execution the rules we had formerly laid down -for cruising; as also to settle our regulations about plunder, and against gaming ; which was done on the nth. According to our agreement, mine was to be the outermost ship, the Duchess, in the middle, and the Marquis next the land ; the nearest ship to be six leagues at least, and nine at most, from the shore ; the bark to ply to and fro, and carry advice from ship to ship: By this agreement, we could spread fifteen leagues, and fee any thing that might pass us in the day within twenty leagues of the shore; and, to prevent the ships passing in the night, we were to ply to windward all day, and drive all night. On the Ztfi of November we changed our situation, and the Du- ehefs was next the shore, and the Marquis in the middle. It gave us great satisfaction, to consider, that in this very place, and about this very day, Sir Thomas Cavendish took the Manilla ship. On the 16th, we sent the bark to look for water on the main ; and next morning they returned, having seen wild Indians, who paddled to them on bark-logs: They were fearful of coming near our people at first, but were soon prevailed with to accept of a knife or two, and some baize; for which they returned two bladders of water, a couple of live foxes, and a deer's-skin. Till now, we thought she Spaniards had missionaries among these people; but they being quite naked, having no sign of European commodities, nor the least word of Spanish, we concluded they were quite savage. We dispatched the bark and boat a second time with trifles, in hopes to get
to MAGELLAN 1 CA, &c. ZlZ get some refreshment from them. On the 18th, before 17°?* sun set, we could perceive our bark under the lhore; and, having little wind'* soe drove most part of the night, to be near us in the morning: We sent our pinnace, and brought the men aboard, who told us, that their new acquaintance were grown very familiar, but were the poorest wretches in nature, and had no manner of refreshment for us : They came freely aboard to eat some of our victuals, and by signs, invited our men a lhore. The Indians swam ashore to guide the bark-logs that our men were on, there being too much sea to land out of our boat. After they got fase on shore, the Indians led each of our men betwixt two of them, up the bank, where there was an old naked gentleman, with a deer-skin spread on the ground, on which they kneeled before our people, who did the like, and wiped the water off their faces without a cloth. These that led them from the water-side, took the same care of them for a quarter of a mile, and led them very slowly, through a narrow pass, to their huts, where they found a dull musician, rubbing two jagged sticks across each other, and humming to it, to divert and welcome their new guests. After these ceremonies were over, our people fat on the ground with them, eat broiled fish, and were attended back in the same manner, with the Indian music. The savages brought a sample of everything they had, except their women, children, and arms, which we find are not common to strangers. Their knives, made of iharks teeth, and a few other of their curiosities, cur people brought aboard to me, which 1 preserved, to show what shifts may be made. On the 28th in the afternoon, we heard the Marquis fire a gun, which was answered by the Duchess , wno had the middle birth. We tacked immediately, and made all possible sail, supposing they had seen a stranger. The Marquis stood to us, towardl the shore, and we soon met her : By four o'clock I was aboard them, and inquired'into the cause Vot. III. R r of
J 7 °9' of the alarm; was surprised to hear they took us f6r the Manilla ship, and the gun they fired, was to alarm the Duchess to give chace, as she had done all the day, though not regarded by us, who knew the Marquis , and admired they could mistake the Duke. Immediately each ship returned to his station. Soon after our main tie gave way, and our main-yard came down at once, but did no other damage. Next morning we saw the bark coming off shore, where she had been becalmed : Being longer wanting than usual, we were afraid they were cut off by the Indians. We got our bale-goods up from abaft, to lee for the leak ; but all to no purpose ; we found several of the bales that had received some damage, which we dried and repacked, and sold what was damaged among the siiip's company. The fame night, our lazareto-door being broken open, and losing bread and sugars, this morning I ordered a search, and found the thief. I blamed the steward for his remiffnefs : He told me, he lay next the door, with the key fastened to his privy parts, because he had it once stolen out of his pocket; I suppose by the same thief, who was so dextrous as to get it now, without disturbing him; but, not being ingenious enough to fallen it to the fame place, he was discovered : His mcfs-mate was also guilty, bur, knowing, his friends at Bristol , I was unwilling to punish him, though, provisions being scarce, it made the crime the greater ; for, We expected no recruit till we got to tire Eaft-Indies. I ordered the first to be severely whipt at the geers, and the other, and a Dutchman , to be afterwards left with him in irons. On the 9th of December, Mr. Duck, the master of the bark, came aboard, and presented me with some dolphins he had from the Indians. I ordered our master to go with him, and endeavour, if possible, to discover the shore along to the northward,, to find out a better harbour than that where the Indians lived ; and, if they met with. the Duchess , to tell Captain Courtney , I thought it convenient
to MAGELLANIC A, ©V. 315 convenient for one of the ships to go into the bay we i 7 ° 9 - had already discovered, and there to take in water and wood, &c. so to fit our Ihips by turns, to save time, and, consequently, provisions, which began now to grow short with us. We were also something dubious of seeing the Manilla ships, because it was near a month after the time they generally fall in with this coast that we were here cruising on tor them; but, whatembarass- ed us most was, the impossibility of procuring any intelligence which might deliver us from this perplexity. To act with judgement and spirit in so nice a conjuncture, it was resolved on the 4th, that the Marquis should go into the harbour, in order to refit; that I and the Duke should keep the outward birth, and the Duchess remain between us and the shore. It was likewise fixed, that we should cruise but eight days longer in hopes of this Manilla ship. On considering our provisions, we found the bread on bozrd all the ihips, at our present short allowance, for about seventy days at most. Our run to Guam , one of the Ladronss , could not possibly be performed in less than fifty days ; which added to the time we were still to remain here, made it evident, that, on our arrival there, we should have bread only for eleven days : And, even then, we ran two hazards ; the first, that our voyage might be longer, and, in that cafe, our bread must fail, before we arrived ac Guam ; the other, that, in cafe we had such a remainder of bread when we came there, it was not quite certain, that we should obtain a supply. Yet, at all events, we were obliged to resojve upon this course, because it was simply impossible for us to go round by Cape Horn , and lo to the Brash , where we might have sold our goods to vast advantage, and made our voyage back to Great Britain in much, less time. The thoughts of all these difficulties naturally made us a little melancholy : However, on the 21st of De-, cember, we bore away for the port where the Marquis R r 2 ■vVas
zi6 J 7° 9 WOODES ROGERS, was refitting; but, about nine in the morning, the man at the mast-head cried out, that he saw a sail, besides the Duchess and bark, distant about seven leagues from us. We hoisted our ensign immediately, and bore away after her, the Duchess did the like ; but, it falling calm, I ordered the pinnace to be manned, ^nd sent out, to make what she was. In the mean time, our ship's company were strangely divided in their opinions : Some were very positive, that it was the Marquis come out of port; and, to confirm this, they asserted, that the sail had no sore-topmast; upon which we recalled the pinnace, put a cap aboard her for the Marquis , and then sent her away again; and by this time it was noon. All the rest of the day we had very little wind, so that we made no great way; and the boat not returning, kept us in a languishing condition, not being able to determine, whether the fail was our consort the Marquis , or the Acapulco ship. Our pinnace was still in sight, and we had nothing to do but to watch her motions: We could fee, that she made towards the Duchess's pinnace, which rowed to meet her: They lay together some time, and then the Duchess's pinnace went back to their ship, which gave us great hopes. In order to obtain some certainty, I ordered Mr. Fry on board the Duchess , in our yawl, to know what that ship was, and to agree, if ihe was not the Marquis, how to engage her: As soon as the yawl was gone, we hoisted French colours, and fired a gun, which the stranger answered; and this, in some measure, cleared the doubt. Mr. Fry, however, quickly returned, with the joyful new.s, that this was really the Manilla ship, for which we had waited so long, arid of seeing which we now began to despair. This revived all our courage, and every body was as active in preparing for the engagement, as we could possibly desire. The thoughts of being made at once, dispersed all our melancholy reflections on the shortness of our provisions, and our long run to Guam: We had now nothing in
to MAGELLANIC A, &c. zr? >n our heads, but being masters of the mighty treasure r 7°9- on board this India ship; and every moment seemed an hour, till we came up with her. We agreed the two pinnaces should tend her all night, and keep (how- ing false fires, that we might know whereabout they and the chace were and if we were so fortunate as to come up with her together, we agreed to board her at once. We made a clear (hip before night, had every thing in readiness to engage her at day-break, and kept a very good look-out all night for the boat's false fires, which we saw, and answered frequently. At day-b*ak we saw the chace upon our weather-bow, a- bout a league from us, the Duchess a-head of her to leeward, near about half as far. Towards fix our boat came aboard, having kept very near the chace all the night, and received no damage ; but told us, the Duchess passed by her in the night, and (he fired two (hot at them, but they returned none. We had no wind, but got out eight of our (hip's oars, and rowed above an hour ; then there sprung up a (mall breeze. I ordered a large kettle of chocolate to be made for our (hip's company (having no spiritous liquor to give them); then we went to prayers, and, before we had concluded, were disturbed by the enemy's firing at us. They had barrels hanging at each yard-arm, that looked like powder-barrels, to deter us from boarding them. About eight o'clock we began to engage her by ourselves ; for the Duchess , being to leeward, and having little wind, did not come up. The enemy fired her stern-chace upon us first, which we returned with our fore-chace several times, till we came nearer ; and, when close aboard each other, we gave her several broadsides, plying our small-arms very briskly; which they returned as thick for a while, but did not ply their great guns half so fust as we. After some time, we (bat a little a-head of them, lying thwart her hawse, close aboard ; and plied them so warmly, that (lie soon struck her colours two-thirds down. By this time
3 iS WOOD ES ROGERS, 1709. time the Duchess came up, and fired about five gtjr*s ? with a volley of small-stiot; but the enemy, having submitted, made no return. We sent our pinnace a- board, and brought the captain, with the officers, a- way ; and, having examined them, found there was another ship come out of Manilla with them, of larger burden, haying about forty brafs-guns mounted, and as many pattereroes; but, they told us, they lost her company three months ago, and reckoned she was got to Acapulco before this time, site failing better than this ship. This prize was called by the swelling name of Nofira Seniora de la Incarnacion Disenganio , Sir John Pichberty commander -, the had twenty guns, twenty pattereroes, and 193 men aboard, whereof nine were killed, ten wpunded, and several blown up with powder. We engaged them about three glasses; in which time, we had only myself, and another man wounded. I was shot through the left cheek ; the bullet struck away great part of my upper jaw, and several of my teeth, part of which dropt down upon the deck, where I fell: The other, William Powell , an Irish landman, was slightly wouqded in the buttock. They did us no great damage in our rigging, but a shot disabled our mizen-mast. , I was forced to write what I would fay, to prevent the loss of blood, and because of the pain 1 suffered by speaking. On the 23d of September, after we had put our ships to rights, we stood in for the harbour, which was distant about seven leagues to the north east. Our surgeons went on board the prize, to dress their wounded men. About four' in i;he afternoon we came to an anchor, and received the compliments of all on board the Marquis , on our sudden and unexpected success, and which afforded us ho small s satisfaction: We found that ship in good condition, ready to sail, and all the men on board her very brisk, and eager for action. At eight in the evening, we had a consultation on the two great points -, first, what should be done with the hostages : and, next, how we should
TO M A6ELLANICA, &?f.' Pi should act with respect to the other Manilla ship, which ■toe thoughc there was at least a great probability of our W ' J taking, if we could remain here a little longer. We agreed that it would be best, since we had good reason to believe the hostages from Guiaquil , and the commander of the Manilla ship, who was a French gentleman, viz. the Chevalier Jean Pichberti , brother to the famous Mr. du Cap, to be men of strict honour, to make the best terms possible, and then set them at liberty. As to the other, we met with greater difficulty. I was very desirous of going out with the Duchess to cruise for the other Manilla ship ; but there having been some reflections cast, on account of the Duchess not engaging our last prize so soon as it was thought she might have done. Captain Courtney was absolutely bent on going out with the Marquis ; and the officers of both ships voting for this in the committee, my proposal was over-ruled, and we were forced to stay in the harbour against our will. It was, however, agreed, that we should put ten of our best hands on board the Duchess , that she might be the better able to attack the Acapulco ship, if we saw her; and, on Christmas- eve, she and the Marquis sailed. As soon as they were gone, we put part of the goods aboard the bark into the prize, in order to send away our prisoners. The agreement we made with them was- this : As there were still 4000 pieces of eight due for the ransom of Guiaquil , we agreed to sell them the bark and cargo for 2000 more ; and to take the Chevalier Pichberti' s bills, payable in- London , for the round sum of 6000 pieces of eight which he very readily gave us, and an acknowledgement under his hand, that he thought it a good bargain. When this was settled, we had nothing to look to but our own security, during the small time that our consorts were cruising, and for this we made the most prudent disposition we could. On Christmas-day we posted two centinels on the top of an hill, from whence they had a fair view of the sea, with
Z2v WOODES ROGERS, 1709. with instructions, whenever they saw three sail os ships '"' w in the offing, to make three wafts with their colours, that we might have time enough to secure our prisoners, and to get out to the relief of our consorts; which indeed we expected, as having certain intelligence, that this was a much stronger ship than the other, better manned, and better provided in all respects; so that, if she was carried, it must prove very hot work on both fides, for which we were to prepare. On the 26th, in the afternoon, the centries made three wafts, and We immediately sent the yawl to them for better satisfaction, and found there were three fail out at sea: Upon which, we instantly put all the prisoners on board the bark; taking away her fails, and fetched our tnen aboard, leaving only twenty-two hands belonging to us aboard the prise, to keep, affist, and look after them. The prisoners, who were about 170, being secured aboard our bark without arms, rudders, fails* or a boat, and moored near a mile from our prize, a few more of our men than was sufficient to give them victuals and drink, might have guarded them very safely ; yet, for the more security, we left a lieutenant of each ship, and the above men well armed, aboard our prize, and immediately weighed, in order to go and affist our consorts to attack the great ship, when she came in sight. Captain Dover thought fit to go on board the prize, and exchange posts with one of the lieutenants that guarded the prisoners, and sent him to us in his stead. I was in so weak a condition, and my head and throat so much swelled, that I yet spoke in great pain, and not loud enough to be heard at any distance , so that all the rest of the chief officers, and our surgeons, would have persuaded me to stay in the harbour in safety aboard our prize. We weighed our anchors, and got under fail at seven o'clock; we saw lights several times in the night, which we took to be our consorts boats making false fires. I11 the morning, at day break, we saw three sail to windward of us;
to MAGELLANIC A, & c. 321 us; but were so far distant, that we could not know 1709. which were our consorts, and which the chace, till a- bout nine o'clock, when we saw the Duchess and chace near together, and the Marquis standing to them with all the sail stie could croud. We made what sail we could, but were to leeward of them three or four leagues, and having a scant wind, made little way. At noon, they bore south-east of us, being right to windward about three leagues. In the afternoon, we saw the Murquis come up with the chace, and engage her pretty briskly; but soon fell to leeward out of cannon shot, and lay a considerable time, which made us think she was some way or other disabled. I ordered the pinnace to be manned, and sent away to her; and, if what we suspected proved true, and we had no wind to get up with them before night, our boat might dog the chace with signals till the morning, that she might not escape us, and the other strips; but, before the boat could get up with them, the Marquis made fail, and came up with the chace; and both went to it a- gain briskly for four glasses and upwards. Then the strip, which We took to be the Duchess , steered a-lread to windward of the enemy, I suppose to six her rigging, or stop her leaks. Meanwhile the other strip kept her in play, till she bore down again ; and each, siring a broadside or two, left off, because it was dark. They then bore south of us, which was right in the wind's teye, distant about two leagues: By midnight we were pretty well up with them, and our boat came aboard, having made false fires, which we answered. They had been aboard the Duchess , and the Marquis ; and told me, the former had her fore-mast much disabled, and the ring of an anchor shot away, with several men wounded, and one killed, having received a shot in thp powder-room, and several in their upper works, but all stopped : They engaged the ship by themselves the night before, which was what we took to be the boats lights, being out of the hearing of the guns. At Vol. 111, S s that
ZL2- WOODES ROGERS* 1709. that time they could perceive the enemy was in discs- der, her guns not being all mounted, and consequently their netting-deck and close quarters unprovided ; so that had it been my good fortune, in the Duke, to accompany the Duchess , as I desired, we all believed they might then have carried this great ship ; or, if they, in the Duchess , had thought of taking most of the men out of the Marquis , who did not fail well e- nough to come up to their assistance at first, they a- lone, very probably, might have taken her, by boarding at once, before the Spaniards had experienced our strength, being afterwards so well provided, as encouraged them to lie driving, and* give us all opportunity to board them when we pleased. Captain Cooke sent me word, that the Marquis had fired near all her shot and powder ; but had escaped Very well, both in masts, rigging, and men. I sent our boat with three barrels of powder, and shot in proportion, and Lieutenant Fry, to consult our consorts how to engage the enemy to the best advantage at break of day. The chacehad made signals to our strip all the day and night, because she took us for her consort, which we had in possession; and, after it was dark, had edged away to us ; other- therwise I should not have been up with her, having very little wind, and that against us. In the morning, as soon as it was day, the wind veering at once, put our ship about, and the chace fired first upon the Duchess, who, by means of the wind's veering, was nearest the enemy -, she returned it smartly -, we stood as near as possible, firing as our guns came to bear : But the Duchess being by this time thwart the haws, and firing very fast, those shot that missed the enemy, flew from the Duchess over us, and betwixt our masts; so that we ran the risque of receiving more damage from them, than from the enemy, if we had lain on her quarters, and cross her stern, as I designed, while the enemy lay driving there : This forced us to lie alongside, close aboard her, where we kept siring round- shot,
to MAGELLANIC A. 323 shot, and did not load with aify bar or partridge, be- ! 7 0 9" cause the ship's sides were too thick to receive any da- mage by it-, and, no men appearing in sight, it wguld have been a clog to the force of our round-shot. We kept close aboard her, and drove as she did, as near as possible : The enemy kept to their close quarters ; so that we did not fire our small-arms, till we saw a man appear, or a port open ; then we fired as quick as possible. Thus we continued for four glasses, about which time we received a shot in the main-mast, which much disabled it : Soon after, the Duchess and we firing together, we came back close under the enemy, and had like to have been all aboard her: So that we could make little use of our guns. Then we fell a- stern in our birth along-side, where the enemy threw a fire-ball out of one of her tops, which lighting upon our quarter-deck, blew up a chest of arms and car- touch-boxes, all loaded, and several cartridges of powder in the steerage; by which means Mr. Vanbrugh y our agent, and a Dutchman , were very much burnt. It might have done more damage, had it not been quenched soon. After we got clear of each other, the Duchess stood in for the shore, where sire lay braced . to, mending her rigging, &o. The Marquis fired several soot, but to little purpose, her guns being imall: We were close aboard several times afterwards, till at last we received a second soot in the main-mast, not far from the other, which rent it miserably, and the mast settled to it: So that we were afraid it would drop by the board ; and, having our rigging shattered very much, we steered off, and brought to, making a signal to our consorts what to do: In the interim, we got ordinary si sires for a support to the main-mast, and fastened it, as well as we could, to secure it at present. Captain Courtney and Captain Cooke came aboard, with other officers ; where we considered the condition she three snips were in, their masts and rigging being much damaged, in a place where we could get no re-
324 WOOD ES ROGERS, I 7 P 9 - cruit; that, if we engaged her again, we could pro- pose to do no more than what we had already done, which was evident did her no great hurt, because we could perceive few of our foot entered her fides to any purpose; and our small arm's availed less, there being npt a man to be seen above board; that the least thing in the world would bring our main-mast, and likewise the Duchess 's fore-mast, by the board, either of which, by its fall, might carry away another masse and then we should lie a perfect butt for the enemy, having nothing to command our ships with ; so that, by his heavy guns, he might either link or take us: That, if we v/ent to board her, we should run a great hazard in losing a great many men, with little hopes of success, they having above treble the number aboard to oppose us; and there being now, in all our ships, not above' , 120 men fit for boarding, and those but weak, having been very short of provisions; so that, if We had boarded her, and been forced off, or left any of our men behind, the enemy by that means might have known our strength, and then gone into the harbour, and took possession of the prize in spite of all we could do to prevent it. Besides, our ammunition was very short, having only enough to engage a few glasses longer .All this being seriously considered, and knowing the difficulty we should have to get masts, and the time and provisions we mustlpend before we could get them fitted, we resolved to forbear attempting her further, since our battering her signified little, and we had not strength enough to board her: Therefore we agreed to keep her company till night, then to lose her, and make the best of our way into the harbour, to secure the prize we had already taken. 'We engaged first and last about seven hours, during all which tune we had, aboard the Duke, but eleven men wounded, three of whom were scorched with gunpowder. I was again unfortunately wounded in my left foot with a splinter, just before we blew up on the quarter-deck ; so that I could
to MAGELLANIC A, &c, 325 T-' could not stand, but lay on my back in a great deal 1709. of misery, part of rny heel-bone being struck out^ and all under my ancle cut above half through ; which bled very much, and weakened me, before it could be dressed and stopped. 1 The Duchess, had about twenty men killed and wounded : Three of the latter, and one of the former, were my men. The Marquis had none killed or wounded, but two scorched with powder. The enemy's was a brave lofty new ship, the admiral of Manilla, and this the first voyage she had made. She was called the Vigenia, of about 900 tons, and could carry sixty guns, about forty of which were mounted with as many pattereroes, all brass ; her complement of men on board, as we wee informed, was above 450, besides passengers j they added, that 150 of the men on board this great ship were Europeans , several of whom had been formerly pirates, and, having now got all their wealth aboard, were resolved to defend it to the last. The gunner, who had a post in Manilla , was an expert man, and had provided the ship extraordinary well for defence, which made them fight so desperately. They had filled up all between the guns with bales, to secure the men : She kept a Spanish ff ag at her main-top-mast-head all the time she fought us : We shattered her sails and rigging very much, shot her mizen-yard, killed two of her men out of her tops, which was all the damage we could fee we did them, though we could not place less than 500 shot (six pounders) in her hull. These large ships are built at Manilla, with excellent timber, that will not splinter-, they have very thick sides, much stronger than we build in Europe. Thus ended our attempt on the biggest Manilla ship; which I have heard related so many ways at home, that I thought it necessary to set down a very particular circumstance of it, as it stood in my journal. Plad we been together at first, and boarded her, we might probably have taken this great prize; but, after the enemy had fixed her net-r
3 26 WOODES ROGERS, 1710. ting-ncck and close-quarters, they valued us very li" tie. I helieve also we might have burnt her with one of our ships; but that was objected against by all the officers, because we had goods of value on board all. our ships. The enemy was the better provided for us, because they had heard at Manilla , from our Englijh settlements in India, that there were two small ships, fitted from Bristol , that designed to attempt somewhat in the South Seas, and that Captain Damper was pilot j which was the reason they had so many Europeans a* board the great ship, most of whom having, as I said, their wealth aboard, they would fight to the utmost ; and having agreed to pay no freight there, had filled up all between the guns with hales, to secure the men. The two ships were to have joined at Cape St. Lucas x expecting to meet us off Cape Ccrientes, or Natividad. This was a great disappointment to us, and gave, no doubt, much reputation to them : Indeed theydefend- ed themselves gallantly -, and, in all human probability, would haye defended her to the last; and yet, perhaps, they were as much indebted to our squabbles, as to their pwn courage and conduct : Which shows what care ought to be taken on board, all such vessels, to avoid disputes, which are always fatal to great undertakings, and small ones. We were sensible of it, when it was too late ; but our sense of it would not recal what was past, nor could it prevent what was to come; for, instead of taking warning, as reasonable people should have done, by the effects of this gross mistake, we, on the contrary, suffered ourselves to be thrown by it into new and greater disorders, than hats hitherto arisen during the voyage. ' On January iff, 1710, we returned again into port and, as we were now determined to make as quick dispatch as possible in our passage to the East-Indies ,, we immediately parted with our prisoners, giving them the bark, with water and provisions sufficient for their voytige to Acapulco. Then we applied ourselves to settling
to MAGELLANXCA, c re. 357 settling our own affairs. We spent our time to the 1710. 7th in refitting, wooding, and watering; and very satisfactory it was for us to find as much bread on board the prize, as, with our old shock, as might sup- ply us in our long run to Guam. On the 3d, we fetched out three wounded men from on board the Duchess. One of them, whose name was Thomas Young , a Weljhman , had lost one of his legs; another, who was aHb a Welshman , had his face miserably torn; and, a third, whose name was John Golf was wounded in the thigh ; and, besides these, there was a very honest Portuguese , one Emanuel Gonsalvez killed. A- bout this time, Captain Courtney , and his officers, with those on board the Marquis , were too willing to compliment Captain Dover with the chief command of th? prize, which, till now, I thought he would not have accepted, his posts already being above a commander of any of our prizes; but I and my officers were against it, because we believed Captain Ary, or others, were fitter persons to take charge of her; which we insisted on: And Captains Courtney and Cooke came to me, where they agreed to a paper, that was drawn up v while we were all together, in such a manner, as I thought, would have satisfied every one* Capt. Co"r/- ney carried this agreement to Captain Dover to sign it; not doubting, but all would be content with what we had concluded ; yet, to our surprise, they spent the remains of the day, and, instead of making Captain Dover comply with it, undid all, and brought a paper, which impowered him to be sole commander, without the least restraint of not molesting those that should navigate the ship, but to order every thing as he should think fit. I sent a letter to Captain Courtney this morning, to know what measures were going forward, having heard nothing from him since the 7th instant: And desired that there might be no loss of time, but that the committee might meet once more, to try if they would make use of their unbiassed rea* son:
328 WOODES ROGERS, 4710. son: They were then all aboard the Marquis, where I heard they had, since our last meeting, concerted how to frame a protest against me, and my officers of the committee, which was immediately answered by a protest from me, both which Were signed on the 9th, I had always desired, that Captain Dover might be a- board her; for, being a considerable ow-ner, we all a- greed he was a very proper person to take care of her cargo, and to have all accommodation that could be made for him in that strip, which was of such vast consequence to us, and our employers: That, in their instructious to me, they strictly charged me to use the securest methods to bring her safe home, in cafe we should be so fortunate, as we now were, to take one of the Acapalco ships; so that, after the protests were over on both sides, I desired they might assemble together, and finally determine what the majority would agree on, that no time might be lost : So all the council met again on board the Bachelor , to endeavour an accommodation. After a long debate, they voted Mr. Fry and Mr. Stretton both to act in equal posts, to take charge of the navigating the strip, though under Captain Dover -, but they were not to be molested or contradicted in their business by him, whose duty it was to fee, that nothing should be done contrary to the interest of the owners, and strips companies, in the stature of an agent, almost in the lame manner I proposed at first; only he had the title of chief captain in that ship, which was so small a difference, where titles were so common, that we all consented to it: And, at the same time, they chose officers, agreeing, that we should pitt thirty men aboard her, the Duchess twenty- five, and the Marquis thirteen, Which, with thirty-si^ Manilla Indians , called Las-Car , and other prisoners we had lefr, made her complement about 110 men. The majority keeping to their first agreement, I Was obliged to come in to it, according to my instructions from our owners; so that all our differences about this affair
to MAGELLANIC A, &c. 329 affair were at an end, and we drank to our safe arrival 1710. in Great Britain. In the morning, we put thirty-five good hands aboard her: the Duchess and Marquis put no more than their share. The Captains Courtney and Coeke, and two or three more of the committee, came to me, where we signed a paper for Captain Dover , and the two commanders, recommending peace and tranquillity amongst them; and, that, in cafe of separation, the place of rendezvous was tp be Guam , one of the Ladrone Islands , where we designed to touch. I should have been very unwilling to have committed all this dispute to writing, if I had not been satisfied that it was no longer in my power to conceal it; and that, since it was known in part, 1 ought, in justice to myself, my friends, and to truth itlelf, to give the whole; which I conceive lo much the more reasonable, be- causeit may hereafter prove useful to persons in the like circumstances: And, in so perplexed a business as ours, there is nothing so serviceable as precedents. As I have not filled this work with a variety of descriptions; so, before I quit America, it may not be amiss to give the reader some account of California ; the rather, because most of what 1 relate I was eyewitness of, and therefore it deserves the greater credit. 1 have heard from the Spaniards, that some of their natioq had failed as far betwixt California and the main as 42 degrees north latitude, where, meeting with shoal-water and abundance of islands, they durst not venture any farther ; so that, if this be true, in all probability it joins to the continent a little farther to the northward : For shoal-water and islands are a general sign of being near some main-land. But the Spaniards , having more territtydes in this part of the world than they knov^ ho# to manage, are not curious after further discoveries. The Manilla ships, bound to Acapulco , often make this coast in the latitude of 40 degrees north ; and I never heard of any that discovered it farther to the northward. Some old Vol. 111. T t draughty
co ZS WOjDES ROGERS, 1710. draughts make it join to the land of Jeffo-, but all this being yet undetermined, I shall not take upon me to affirm, whether it is an iffahd, or joins to the continent. The Dutch fay, they 1 formerly took a SpanifJ) vessel in those seas, which had failed round California, and found it be ah island j but this'account cassnot be depended on, and 1 chuse to believe it joins to the continent. There is ho certain account of its shape or bighess ; and, having feCO so little of it, I 'shall refer the reader' to ouh common' draughts so its situation. What I can fay of it from my own knowledge is, that the land where we were is, for the molt part,' mountainous, barren, and sandy, and had nothing but a few shrubs' and bushes, which produced fruit and berries of several forts'. Our then, who went in our bark to view the country about fifteen leagues to the northward, fay, it was there covered with tall trees. The Spaniards tell' us of good harbours in this country ; but we found none of them near this cape. We frequently saw smoke in several places ; which made us believe the inhabitants were pretty numerous. The bay, where we rode, had but very indifferent anchor- ing-ground in deep water, and is the worst recruiting- place we met with since we came out. The wind, at this time of the year, generally blowing over land, makes it good riding on the starboard-side of the bay, where you anchor on a bank that has from ten to twenty fathoms water : But the rest of the bay is very deep; and, near the rocks on the larboard-side, going in, there is no ground. During the time of our stay, the air was serene, pleasant, and healthful; and we had no strong gales of wind, very little rain, but great dews fell by night, when it was very cold. The natives we saw here were about 300. They had large limbs, very straight, tall, and of a much blacker complexion than any other people that 1 had seen in the South Seas; their hair long, black, and straight, which hung down to their thighs : The men stark- naked;
to MAGELLANIC A* &c. zzr naked* and the women had a covering of leaves ovtfhyio. their, privities, or little clouts made of 61k-grafs, or vW the skins of birds and beasts. All of them, that we saw, were old, and miserably wrinkled. We suppose tfjat they were afraid to let any of their young ones come near us; but needed not: For, besides the good order kept among our men ih that respect, if we may judge by what we saw, they could not be very tempting. The language of the natives was as unpleasant to us as their aspect * for it was very harsh and broad, and they pronounced it so much in their throat* as if their words had been ready to choak them. 1 designed so have brought two of them away with me, in order to have had some account of the country, when they had learnt so much. of our language as to enable them to give it; but, being short of provisions, I durst not venture .it; Some of them wore pearls about their arms arid necks, having first notched it roUnd* and fastened it with a string of silk-grafs *, for, I suppose, they knew not how to bore them. The pearls were mixed with little red berries* sticks, and bits of shells, which they looked upon to be so fine an ornament, that, though we had glass-beads of several colours, and Other toys, they would Accept of none of them. They coveted nothing we had but knives, and other cutting instruments* and were so honest, that they did meddle with our coopers or carpenters tools; so that; whatever wks left ashore at night, we found in the morning. We saw nothing like European furniture or Utensils about them. Their huts were very low* and made of branches of trees and reeds-, bbt not sufficiently covered to keep out fain. They had nothing like gardens or provisions a- bout them. They subsisted chiefly on fish while we were here, which, with the miserableness of their huts, that seemed only to be made for a time, made fas conclude* they had no fixed habitation here, whatever they might have elsewhere; and that this was their T t % fishing
3$2 WOODES ROGERS, i 7 <o. sisoing season. We saw no nets or hooks, but wooden' w '" l instruments, with which they strike the fish very dextrously, and dive to admiration. Some of our sailors told me, they saw one of them dive with his instrument, and, whilst he was under water, put up his striker, with a fisti on the point of it, which was taken off by another, that watched by him in a bark-log. The reader may believe of this what he pleases; but I give it the more credit, because I myself threw some rusty knives overboard, on purpose to try the divers, who seldom miffed catching a knife before it could link above three or four fathoms; which I took to be an extraordinary proof of their agility. Instead of bread; they used a little black feed, which they ground with stones, and eat by handfuls. Some of our men thickened their broth with it, and said, it tasted somewhat like coffee. They have some roots, that eat like yams; a fort of feeds, that grow in cods, and taste like green peas; a berry, which resembles those of ivy, and, being dried at the sire, eats like parched pease. They have another,- like a large currant, with a little tartilh pulp, a stone, and a kernel. This fort of fruit they seem to value much. They have also a fruit, which grows on the prickle-pear-tree, tastes like goosberries, and makes good sauce. They have many other feeds and plants unknown to us; but I was not in a condition to view and describe them. They seem to have an hunting season, by the skins of deer we saw among them. They paid mueh respect to one man, whose head was adorned with feathers, made up in the form of a cap. In other respects, they seemed to have all things in common ; for, when they exchanged fish with us for old knives, of which we had plenty, they gave the knives t-o any that stood next;■ and,- after they had e- nough, we could get no si so from them. They appeared to be very idle, and seemed only to look after a present subsistence. They observed our men very attentively, while they cut wood, and filled water; but did
TO mageLlanica. 3 did not lend us an hand at either, or indeed in any 17 thing that required hard labour. Their arms are bows ^ and arrows, with which they can shoot birds flying. Their bows are about seven feet long, 6nd of a tough wood, unknown to us, with strings of silk-grafs; their arrows about four feet and an half, made of cane, and pointed with fish-bones* that they shape for the purpose. Most of their knives, and other cutting instruments, are made of sharks teeth. I saw two or three large pearls in their necklaces and bracelets; and the Spaniards told me, they had quantities of them from the inner part of the gulph of California , where they have missionaries planted among therm Our men told me, they saw heavy shining stones ashore, which looked as if they came from some mine; but they did not inform me of this till we were at sea; otherwise I would have brought some of them, to have tried what metal could have been extracted out of them. The Spaniards likewise informed me, that the country in general within, on the main-land of Mexoio, is pleasant; and abounds with cattle and provisions of all forts. The natives grew very familiar with us, and' came frequently aboard, to view our ships; which they mightily admired. We saw no boats Or canoes among them, or any craft, but bark logs, which they steered with paddles at each end. We gave one of the natives a shirt: but he soon tore it in pieces, and gave it to the rest of his company, to put the feeds in which they used for bread. We saw no utensils for cookery amongst them ; nor do I suppose' they have any, for they bury their fish in an heap of sand,and make afire over it, till they think it fit for eating. There were in this bay all the fish usual in these seas. The fresh tvater here is good; and they have abundance of samphire. They make a fire in the middle of their huts, which are very low and smoaky. We saw no extraordinary birds here. I was told by our people, that had been ashore, that they obtain fire, by rubbing two dry sticks
334 WOOD ES ROGERS, 1710. sticks one against the other, as customary amongst the wild Indians. The entrance into the harbour may be known by four high rocks, which look like the Needks of the Isle of Height, as you come from the westward ; the two westermostin form of sugar-loaves ; the innermost has an arch like a bridge, through which the sea makes its way. Here you ride land-lockt from east-by-north back to the south-eastsoy-east : Yet it is but an ordinary road, if the wind should come strong •out of the sea; which it never did while we lay there. I think it may not be amiss to add to these, facts, which cannot be disputed, some conjectures, that carry, in them great probability - and, if ever they should be demonstrated to be certainties, would be attended with very important; and to Us, that inhabit this northern part of the world, advantageous consequences. There have been opinions started about the peopling of A- merica ; but that which, to me; appears the most probable, is; that its inhabitants came hither from Tat- tary ; by that northern continent, which is supposed to join this country to some part of Asia ; 1 fay, this to me appears the most probable, and my reason for it is this because the Spaniards who come hither annually from Manilla or Liiconia , one of the Philippine Islands in tbfc East-Indies, are forced to keep in an high latitude, for the benefit of the westerly winds; and have often sounded, finding ground in latitude 42 degrees north, in several places of the ocean betwixt the East-Indies and America, which makes me conclude there must be more land; though none of them, as I have heard of, ever saw any continent, till they fell in with California , in about 38 degrees or 39 degrees north latitude. I have often admired, that no considerable discoveries have yet been made in south latitude from America to the Eaft-lndies. I never heard the south ocean has been run over by above three or four navigators, who varied very little in their runs from their course, and, by consequence could not discover much. I give
to MAGELLANICA, &c. 335 I give this hint, to encourage our South-Sea Com-1710. pany, or others, to go upon some discovery that way, Where, for aught we know, they may find a better country than any yet discovered, there being a vast: forface of the sea from the Equinox to the South Pole, of at least 2000 leagues in longitude, that has hitherto been little regarded, though it be agreeable to reason that there must be a body of land about the south pole, to counterpoise those vast countries about the north pole. This I suppose to he the reason, why ouf ancient geographers mentioned a Terra Australis incognita , though very little of it has been seen by any body. The land near the South Pole in the South Sea, from California to Japan , is wholly unknown, although the old maps describe the Straits of Anian , and a large continent, which is but imaginary, for the Dutch themselves, who now trade to Japan , fay, they do not yet know whether it be an island, or joins to the continent. I have now done with California , of which the Spaniards would know very little, but for these annual vessels, that fail from Manilla to Acapulco. As I have mentioned these ships, I shall take occasion to observe, that, generally speaking, those that come from Manilla , are much richer than our prize; for she waited a long time for the Chinese junks to bring silk; which not arriving, she came away with a cargo mixed with abundance of coarse goods. Several of the pri* soners assured me, that it was a common thing for a Manilla ship to be worth 10,000,000 pieces of eight; so that, had it not been for this accident, we had taken an extraordinary prize indeed. After my return into Europe , 1 met, in Holland , with a sailor, who had been on board the large ship, when we engaged her; and he let us into the secret, that there was no taking her; for the gunner kept constantly in the powder- room, declaring, that he had taken the sacrament to blow the ship up, is we boarded her; which made the men, as may be supposed, exceedingly resolute in her defence.
ZZ6 WOODES ROGERS, 1710, defence. I was the more ready to credit what this roar* Vvv ' told me, because he gave as regular and circumstantial an account of the engagement, as I could have done from my journal. January 10th, we weighed from Port Seguro , but were becalmed under the shore till the 12th in the afternoon, when there sprung a breeze, which ran us out of sight of the land. We took our departure from Cape St. Lucas , which bore north-by-east, at twelve o'clock, distance fifteen leagues : We were forced to go with little or no refrelhment, having but three or four fowls, and a very slender stock of liquor : Several of our men were in a weak condition, besides myself, Mr. Vanbrugh , and the rest that were wounded. We were forced to allow but one pound and an half of llour, and one small piece of meat, to five tnea in a mess, with three pints of water a man, for twenty-four hours, for drink, and dressing their victuals. We struck down ten of our guns into the hold, to ease our stiip. On the 16th, the Bachelor spade a signal, to give us some bread, they having found a good quantity of bread and sweet-meats on board her, but little of flesh-kind. We had one thousand weight of bread for our share, the Duchess as much, and the Marquis five hundred weight; in lieu of which we sent back to the prize two barrels of flour, one of EngUJh beef, ants one of pork, they having but forty-five days provisions aboard in flesh. On the 26th, in the morning, the water was very much discoloured, at whih being surprised, we immediately sounded, but found no ground. We spoke, with the Duchess , and agreed to go away west-south-west, till we got into the latitude of 13 degrees, because our Spanish pilot told us, it was dangerous going into 14 degrees, by reason of islands and shoals, where a Spanifi vessel was lost some time ago. Ever since, the ship, in her return from Aca- pulco , runs in latitude 1 3 degrees ; and keeps the parallel, till Ihe makes the island of Guam. On the 28th, the
to MAG EL LAN I CA, &c. 337 the steward missing some pieces of pork, we immediate- 1710. iy searched, and found the thieves : One of them had been guilty before, and forgiven, on promise of amendment but was punished now, lest forbearance should encourage the rest to follow this bad practice, provisions being so short, and our runs so long, which might prove of ill consequence : I ordered them to the main-jeers, and every man of the watch to give them a blow with a cat-of-nine-tails; and their mess-mates being privy to the theft, were put in irons. March the nth, we had light of both islands, the northermost bearing north- north-west, distant about seven leagues; and the body of the westermost west-south-west five leagues. The Spaniards fay there is a great shoal between these islands, but nearest to Serpana. We ran along the shore, being satisfied it was the Island of Guam y from whence there came several flying prows to look at the strips ; they ran by us very swift, but none would venture on board. At noon the westermost part of the island bore west; and, at the same time, we made a low small island, joining to Guam, with a shoal be tween it and Guam. The island appeared green, and very pleasant: 0 ff it there runs a spit of sand to the southward ; but, keeping it a good birth from you, • as you come near it, there is no danger, being gradual soundings to the shoal. After we were clear of it, we sprung our loos, and stood in for the harbour, which lies midway betwixt this and the north part of the island. There came heavy flaws of wind off shore, sometimes for us, and at other.times against us ; but we got to an anchor in the afternoon in twelve fathoms water, about half a mile off snore, where there was a little village, The small island to the south bore south of us, distant about three leagues ; and another small one to the northward bore north-north-west; a- bout two leagues. The necessity of our stopping at these islands to get a refreshment of provisions was very great, our fe a-store being almost exhausted; and what Vol III. U u we
33 8 WOODES ROGERS, 1710. we bad left was very ordinary, especially ouf W ' w ' bread and Hour, which was not enough for fourteen days, at the shortest allowance. In order to recruit quietly, we endeavoured to get some of the natives a- board, that were in the prows, to keep them as hostages, in cafe of sending any of our men to the Govern our. One of them, as we were turning into the harbour with Spanish colours, came under our stern: There were two Spaniards in the boat, who, on our assuring them that we were friends, came on board ; and, soon after, came a message from the Governour, to whom we wrote a very respectful letter, and the next day received a civil answer to it, with a generous offer of any thing the island afforded *, which made us very easy. On the 13th, an entertainment was provided on board the Bachelor for the Spanijh gentlemen, to which 1 was carried, being not able to move myself-, but was hoisted in a chair out of the ship into the Bachelor , where we agreed, that a deputation should he sent from each ship to wait on the Governour with an handsome present, in acknowledgment for his great civility, and the readiness he expressed to supply us. On the 15th, there was another entertainment on board the Marquis, to which I was carried as to the former: and, after which, a committee was held, in which our former resolution was confirmed. On the 16th, our pinnace went with several of our officers to the governour s ashore, w ho received them with all imaginable friendship and respect, having near 200 men drawn up in arms at their landing, and the officers and clergy of the island to conduct them to the Gover- nours house, which was a very handsome seat, considering where we found it. They entertained them with at least sixty dishes of several sorts, the best that could be got in the island; and w hen they took their leaves, each fired a volley cf small arms. They presented the Governour, according as we had a- greed, with two ISegro boys, dressed in liveries, twenty
to MAGELLANIC A, err. twenty yards of scarlet cloth-serge, and six pieces of cam- 17 !0 - brick, which he seemed wonderfully pleased with, and promised to asiist us in whatever lay in his power. The very next day we got our dividend, being about sixty hogs, ninety-nine fowls, twenty-four baskets of Indian corn, fourteen bags of rice, forty-four baskets of yams, and eight hundred cocoa-nuts. On the a 8 th, there was an entertainment aboard us, where we had most of our officers, and four Spanijb gentlemen from the Governour. I made them as welcome as time and place would permit, diverting them with music, and our sailors dancing till night, when we parted well pleased on both sides. We got some more bullocks on board, being small lean cattle, but what we gladly accepted. Each lliip had fourteen in all. Next morning, each lliip had two cows and calves more : Being the last, we had a meeting on board the Marquis , where it was agreed to make an handsome present to the Governour's deputy, who got our provisions together, wherein he used all possible dispatch. We gave him, and the rest of the gentlemen, what they esteemed double the value of what we received of them; which they certified under their hands, and that w.e had been very civil to them : We also gave them the like certificate, signed by all our officers, to Ibew t;o any Englijh that might have occasion to recruit there; and parted very friendly. Having sinisoed that affair, it was agreed, that we should steer from hence a west- by-south course, to get clear of some islands that lie in our way ; and then thought it proper to steer directly for the south-east part of Mindanao , and from thence the clearest way to Female. In the mean time, I put an old Spaniard ashore, called Antonio Gomez Fi- guero , whom we took in the first bark in the South Seas, and kept in order to carry him to Great Britain , to condemn all our prizes taken there; but, he being; now not likely to live, we agreed to dismiss him, he giving us a certificate, that he saw us attack and take U u a several
340 WOODES ROGERS, 1710. several prizes, all subjects to Philip V. King of Spain, &c. I gave him some clothes, and other things, to help him in his sickness; then put him astiore to the Deputy-governour, and the rest of the Spanish officers, who gave us a certificate, that they received such a person. The Governour presented us with one of their flying proes or prows, which I shall here describe, because of the oddness of it: The Spaniards told me, it would run twenty leagues in an hour, which I think exceeds the truth ; but, by what I saw, I verily believe they may run twenty miles, or more in the time ; for, when they viewed our ships, they passed by us like a bird flying. These proes are about thirty feet long, two broad, and about three deep ; they have but one mast, which stands in the middle, with a. mat-sail, made in the form of a ship's mizen. The yards are slung in the middle, and a man sits at each end to steer her; so that, when they go about, they do not turn the boat as we do, to bring the wind on the other side , but only change the fail, so that the jack and street of the fail are used alike, and the boat's head and stern are. the same ; only they change them, as occasion requires, to fail either way; for they are so narrow, that they could not bear any fail, were it not for booms that run out from the windward side, fastened to a large log, shaped like a boat, and near half as long, which becomes contiguous to the boat: On these booms a stage is made, above the water, on a level with the side of the boat, upon which they carry goods or passengers. The greatest inconveniency in failing these boats is before the wind; for, by the outlayer, which is built but one side, if the wind presses any thing heavy on the contrary side, the boat is overset, which often happens. As soon as the boat returned from landing Sig- nior Figuero , we put under fail, having a fine breeze of wind at east-north-east. April 14th, in the afternoon, we made land, which bore west-north-west, distant about ten leagues; and supposed it to be the north-east
to MAGELLANICA, &c. 341 north-east part of Celebes'. We saw three water-spouts ; 1710. one of which had like to have broken on the Marquis-, v " v '~ but the Duchess , by firing two shot, broke it before it reached her. We saw a very large tree afloat, with a multitude of fish about it, and two large islands, the southermost bearing south-west, distant about eight leagues, and the northermost west-ndrth-west, seven leagues, both being the fame land we saw the day before ; and the latter then we then supposed to be the south-east part of Moratay -, and the other, the north part of Gilolo. In this condition, we sailed till towards the latter end of the month; with this additional vexation, that our ship was so leaky, that it was as much as four of our men were able to do to keep her free half an hour. Captain Dampier discouraged us very much : He had been twice here, and therefore what he said amongst the seamen, passed without dispute-, and he laid it down as a thing certain, that, if we could not reach Ternate, or find the island of Tula , it was impossible for us to get any refreshment, there being nothing to be met with on the coast of New- Guinea. There were, in the mean time, great heart- 1 burnings on board all the ships about the reduction of our allowance, so that we were obliged to enlarge it again ; so little is reason able to prevail against hunger. We held frequent ^consultations, but to very little purpose ; and, though we sailed the best part of the month of May through the Straits of Neve-Guinea, yet we were able to observe nothing worth mentioning, except that it is most certain, these islands which are scattered through the Straits, and few or none of which are peopled, would all of them bear spice, and afford immense riches to this nation, if they were settled. It may, indeed, be objected j that, from the account I have given of the difficulty of this passage, no great encouragement can arise to the fixing colonies or plantations there : But, to this I answer ; That this difficulty arises intirely from the want of proper charts,
54 2 WOODES ROGERS, ,171V. for the direction of such as fail in those seas; and these might certainly be very soon provided, if such settlement came once to be considered as a national concern. The passage, otherwise, is not either difficult or dangerous: But, when men are at a loss how to steer, are short of provisions, in leaky (hips, and clogged with great cargoes, they may have many reasons to complain, which, with good management, might never befal any of the vessels employed in fettling those islands. On the 18th of May, we passed between the high-land of New-Guinea and the low-land of Gilolo: And, on the 20th, we made another high island, which we took to be Ceram ; and Captain Dampier was inclined to think our conjecture was right. On May 24th, being in the latitude of the Island of Bouro, we expected to make that land, which is about twenty leagues to the south-west of Ceram , and near the same distance, in a parallel with Amboyna , which we designed to have touched at, if the wind had proved favourable: But, as the south-east monsoon was now set in, we were out of hopes of reaching it; and, notwithstanding the skill of Captain Dampier , we were still very doubtful, whether the island we passed by last was Ceram or Bouro. By an observation we had at noon, it appeared, that we were in 4 degrees, 30 minutes south latitude, and 237 degrees, 29 minutes longitude west from London. As we were now in the latitude of the southern part of Bouro , we imputed our not seeing it to the currents setting u$ to the westward of it. The next day, we came tq a resolution not to spend any more time in searching fqr Bouro •, as also to drop our design of going to Amboyna ? and to make the best of our way for the Straits of Bauton ; where, if we arrived safely, we might get provisions sufficient to carry us to Batavia. In pursuance of this agreement, we hauled away south-west-by south tor them, having a fresh gale of wind at east; but, by two in the morning, we fell in with a parcel of islands to
to MAGELLANIC A, 6e. the eastward of Bcutcn •, and had certainly been ashore on one of them, had not the weather cleared up at once. We made a shift, and wore : The ships then stood off north-east Lorn the land till day-break, when we law it trending from south by-east, to south-west-by-south, about six leagues distance, which made a 'fine large bay; but, as we flood in, we perceived an opening, and that there were two islands, with three lying thwart the outlet to the southward of both : We hoisted out our pinnace, and sent her ashore; the Duchess did the same, from whence they brought off some cocoa-nuts, of which there were plenty there; and told us there were Malayan inhabitants, who seemed to be very friendly. Up the bay we saw several boats, houses, and abundance of the native Malayans walking along the shore : We sent in our boats for provisions and pilots, and myself and the Marquis turned up very near to the town; but, sounding several times, found no ground. The natives informed us, there was a bank, opposite to the town, where we might anchor. Abundance of people came off with Indian wheat, cocoa-nuts, yams, potatoes, papas, hens, and several sorts of birds, to truck with us for cloaths, knives, sciffars, and other toys, being very civil to all appearance. They are Mahometans, of a middle stature, and tawney; but the women are somewhat clearer than the men; having very long black hair, th Jr mouths, lips, noses small ; they wear a linen waistcoat, which reaches only to the lower part of their breasts; and about their waist a piece of doth, three or four yards wide, and a yard deep, which they wrap about them, instead of a petticoat. The men that came off were all naked, having only a cloth rolled about their middle, to cover what ought to be some of the better sort of people had a loose sort of waistcoat, and a piece of linen rolled about their heads, with a cap of palm-tree leaves, to keep the fun from scorching. They brought off several cicatoes and parrots, very fine birds. Along the fhore-fide, we saw several weirs they had to catch fish. In 343 1710. Wvs
344 WOODES ROGERS, 1710. In turning up, we found the current very strong against %ors '' us, and the prize lost ground considerably; wherefore, in the evening, the Duchess fired a gun; we ran out, and drove all night. The names of these two istands are Cambava and Wanjhut: These islands lie in latitude 5 degrees, 1 z minutes, longitude 238 west from London. We stood from those islands to the westward, and ran along-shore, as near as we durst, to weather the westernmost point of land, where we expected to find an harbour, but, as we came near it, found a long tract of high land, trending to the southward as far as south-west and by-south : We agreed in opinion that was the Island Bouton , but that we had overlhot the Straits. We made fail, to fee if we could discover any land farther to the southward; but, finding none, we failed on, keeping the wind as near as possible, because of the current, which sets strong to the south-west. By two o'clock in the morning, we were near a small island, that bore south-south-west of us about two leagues ; but, having clear weather, we stood from it till day-break, there being no other land near it that we saw, except that we came from, which we had opened five points farther to the westward. I was unwilling to act any longer without the consent of the committee: So the major-part of us met aboard the Duchess , where we agreed to stand back and make the land plain, so as to be fully satisfied what it was, and withal to find a recruit of water and wood, before we proceeded any farther, being in want of every thing, being then in south latitude 5 degrees, 50 minutes, longitude 238 degrees, 38 minutes west from London. In pursuance of this agreement, we stood back the next day, and made little or no fail all night. In the morning, we had very fine clear weather, and made the land exceeding plain, which was very high, with islands under it. It looked most of it as if inhabited, being pretty thick of wood, and promising us, in other respects, plenty of refreshments; but our misfortune was, we could not meet here with any ground that would
to MAGELLANIC A, &c. 345 ■would hold our anchors; and, the next day, the Z)"-x? 10. chefs , standing over to the other side of the bay, had no better fortune, but was forced to return, without anchoring, to us again. A little before she came back, our boat, which we had sent on shore, returned ; the people on board having, by presents, engaged some of the Malayans to come on board with them -, in which they certainly judged right, though we could make no use of their intelligence for want of an interpreter : I sent to the Bachelor , who had one ; byt Captain Dover refused to let him come to me, notwithstanding he ha 4 no use for him: Then I sent a second time, that I might know the best anchoring-place for our ships, and treated the people with sweetmeats, and other things they fancied, but could not keep them, or fend them aboard the Bachelor to secure her, seeing white shoal-water near us ; but they passed by us, in danger of running on the shoals, not knowing the best anchoring-place for want of the linguist, I so earnestly desired to understand the Malayans that had now left us. At parting, they made signs, and pointed to the land to the northward, which they called Booroo. Our pilot, Captain Dampier > fays he has been formerly through the Straits; and, in his book, tells us of a town, near the south part of them, where the King resided; but he knew nothing of it now, except the bare story. Upon this, we agreed to send one of the pinnaces and the linguist along with him, to find out the town, being willing to venture him to wait on his Majesty the King of Bouton , to solicit for a supply of provisions, for which we would gladly pay; and, to make the better appearance, we sent Mr. Vanbrugh and Mr. Comely along with him. The water flows here above fifteen feet. There are places near to the town, which lie to the northward six leagues, from whence we rode, where a ship might, on occasion, be laid ashore to refit; and we could have carried the Duke thither to stop her leak, but were not willing to lose time, since we found Vol. Ilk. ' X x ic
346 WOODES ROGERS, j 710. it did not increase more than one pump could vent* which we had men enough to keep continually going. On the 30th, in the morning, a prow came from the king, with a nobleman on board, who had neither {hoes nor stockings -, and a pilot to carry us up to town. The first question this Indian Lord asked, after he came on board, was, I Iow we durst come to an anchor there, without leave first had and obtained of the great King of Bouton ? He brought each commander a piece of Bouton stripped cloth, a bottle of arrack, some rice in baskets, &c. as a present from the king as also a letter from the officers we had sent ashore, giving an account, that they had been very well received ; and that the town where the king resided, is large, walled, and fortified, and has several great guns: Another present was returned, and five guns fired by every {hip, at the messenger's going off, at which he seemed very well pleased. We wooded and watered at the Island Sampo, and several prows came off to us with fowl, Indian corn, pompions, papas, lemons, Guinea corn, &c. which they trucked for knives, feissars, old cloaths, &c. The people were civil, but fold very dear ; yet our officers making a longer stay at the town than was intended, we began to suspect th ey werede- tained, those Moors being very treacherous : However, we heard from them every day; and, on June 5, the Duchess 's pinnace came down with Mr. Comely , who told us, there were four lasts of rice coming, which was bought of the King, and cost 6'oo dollars, 50 dollars in tale being allowed to make up the weight, because the royals were light; and that Mr. Vanbrugh was detained for the payment. The next morning it came, and was equally distributed among the four ships; some great men coming to deliver it, and receive the money : A Portuguese , sent by the king, was detained till our boat returned, and provisions began to come more plentifully, and cheaper. The town of Boutgn is seated on the ascent of an hill; on the top whereof
to MAGELLANIC A, &c. 347 whereof is a fort inclosed with an old stone-wall, on 171®. which there are guns and pattereroes mounted. The king, and a considerable number of people, live in the said fort, where an herb-market is kept every day. The king has five wives, besides concubines, and four men, called Pury Bajsa's , who carry great canes, with silver-heads, to manage their affairs. His Majesty, on his long black hair, wears a fort of green gaufe, strewed with spangles; goes always bare-footed and barelegged ; is sometimes clad like a Dutch skipper but, when he appears in state, has a long calico-gown over his short jacket. In council, he sits in a chair covered with red cloth; is always attended by a serjeant and six men, with match-locks; besides three others, one of which wears a head-piece, and carries a large scimitar in his hand another holds a shield ; and the third a great fan. Four staves sit at his feet, one of them holding his betele-box, another a lighted match, another his box to smoke, and a fourth his fpitting-bason. The petty kings and great men sit on his left hand, and before him; every one attended by a stave in the council chamber, where they chew tobacco, and chew hetele in the king's presence ; and speak to him sitting cross-legged, joining their hands, and lifting them up to their forehead. The town of Bouton Is very populous ; and by it runs a fine river, which, they fay, comes down from ten miles up the country, ebbs and flows considerably, and has a bar at the entrance so that boats cannot come out at low-water. At least xyoo boats belong to this river, fifty whereof are prows for war, carrying pattereroes, and forty or fifty meu each. About fifty islands are tributary to the king, who fends some of his prows, once a-year, to gather in the tribute, which consists of slaves, each island giving him ten inhabitants out of every hundred. There is one mosque at Bouton, which is supplied with priests from Moca, the people being Mabomedans. They are great admirers of music ; their houses arc built upon X x 2. H)osts
34 8 WOODES ROGERS, 1710. posts ; Dutch money is current here, and Spams ; dol- lars. On the 17th, our pinnace returned, with Mr. Vanbrugh , and all our men, having parted very friendly with his Majesty, but could not get a pilot for money: However, we resolved to stay no longer, and to trust wholly to Almighty Providence for our future preservation. We dismissed the Portuguese Linguist, • and began to unmoor our ships- The next day, we made three islands to the northward of Zalayer ; and the looming of other land to the westward of all which, we took to be the southermost part of Celebes. On the 10th, our pinnaces came up with this small vessel; who told them, they were bound for MacaJJar , a Dutch factory, on the south part of Celebes: The pinnace took the master of her On board, who promised to pilot us, not only through the streights of Zalayer , but to Batavia, if we could keep it secret, for fear of the Dutch. He sent his vessel to lie in the narrower passage, between the istands, till such time as our ships came up. About four o'clock we entered the strait, betwixt the islands that are next to Zalayer , and another little one to the northward of that, being the middlemost of the three; having found a good passage, three leagues over, all deep water, steering through, north-west by west, to give the larboard istands a good birth ; then we made the southermost part of Celebes. The same morning, the pilot promised to carry us through the channel the great Dutch , ships generally Went for Batavia, and by that means avoid the sholes, called the. Brill and Bunker-ground: The Brill has very uneven foundings and, in many places, but three fathoms water,'and less So we hauled away to the northward, keeping the Island Celebes■ aboard, the south-west part' of which trends away in low-land, with high mountains at the beck of it; and off the point there lies a rock, pretty high and remarkable. At four o'clock we came in to sounding, and had ten fathoms 5
to MAGELLANICA. 349 fathoms -, the first-cast the rock off; the south-west 17'®* point bore then north, distant about fix leagues -, and w ° we had an istand a-head of us, from north-west by west, to north-north-west, being low and level, about three leagues long, and near the lame distance from the main : As we entered, it grew narrower; we stemmed with the north part of the island, till we came within a league and half of it; then steered north a little, to weather a spit of sand lying off the island, by which means we opened three small keys ; after we were clear of the {hole, we hauled up about seven, and came to an anchor under the island, behind the spit of -land, in ten fathoms water, very good clean ground. The rock of Celebes then bore north-east-by-north four leagues, the northermost of the keys two leagues, and the middlemost west-south-west three leagues : The o- ther being shut in with the long island, we kept the land going, all'the way constantly through; and had never less than six fathoms, nor more than ten: As soon as it was day, we weighed, and went betwixt the two small keys, keeping nearest the northermost founding all the way, and had no more than ten fathoms. The water still deepening, being clear of them, we hauled away west, and then south-west, having afresh gale at south-east, and south-east-and-by-east , no land in sight at noon, but part of the high-land at Celebes , which bore east, distant about twelve leagues. It was very well for us that we met with this pilot; for, having no good charts, nor any one acquainted with those seas, we had run greater hazards. On the 14th, we ran by the island Madura , which is about four leagues long, lying east and west, on the north side of Java, the land we made in the morning being the north-east part of it -, which, agreeing with the pilot's knowledge, made us the more certain. On the 17th, we made the high-land of Cheribon , which bore south-west. In the morning, we saw a great ship right a-head; and, being very eager to hear news, I sent our pinnace aboard, to
50 WOODES ROGERS, 1 7 ^- to know what she was. She proved a Dutch { hip, a- v ^ r ' ; bout 600 tons, and fifty guns, belonging to Batavia^ and was plying to some of the Dutch factories for timber. They told us, that it was thirty Dutch leagues from hence to Batavia ; but no danger. We borrowed a large draught, which was very useful to us, and left them at anchor. Towards noon we made the land, being very low; but had gradually soundings, by which we were satisfied in the night how to fail by the sand. In the afternoon, we saw the ships in the road of Batavia , betwixt thirty and forty fail great and small -, and got happily to anchor just after sun-set, betwixt six and seven fathoms water, at the long-desired port of Batavia , in latitude 6 degrees 10 minutes south, longitude 252 degrees, 51 minutes west from London. By our reckoning here, we altered our account of time, haying, as is customary, lost almost one day in running west so far round the globe. When we came in sight of Batavia , and especially after some sloops had been aboard us, I found, that, after sailing so long with them, I was absolutely a stranger to the humours of our people. A few days before, they were perpetually quarrelling and jangling ; a disputed title to a lump of sugar would have created a tumult, which could have been laid by nothing, but the prospect of a small dram : But now there was nothing but hugging and shaking by the hand, and blessing their stars, and questioning if there was such a paradise upon earth; and all this because they had arrack for eightpence a gallon, and sugar at a penny a pound: The next minute all together by the ears again, about who should put the ingredients together; for, the weather being hot, and the materials excessively cheap, labour was now become a very considerable thing. We anchored here in five fathoms water, the ground so soft and ousy, that the anchor sinks above a fathom ib that it cannot foul: And therefore ships always ride single. The town bore south-by-east, distant a mile and
To MAGELLANIC A, ire. zzl and an half; and the Island Onrest bore north-west-by- i7 IC> * north, distant two leagues and an half. At this island ^ Y '~* the Dutch clean and careen all their ships, and have two wind-mills on it to saw timber. They haul their ships along the fide of a wharf, where there are two cranes to discharge them, and storehouses to lay up the goods. The Duchess fired thirteen guus to salute the Dutch flag; but, it being night, he did not answer: Yet the next morning he sent his boat aboard, to beg my pardon for that omission, which he would then repair. Soon after, the Duke fired thirteen guns ; and the Dutch flag answered both our ships gun for gun. Between twelve and one, two English gentlemen came aboard us, the one Captain of an Englijh ship, there being three and a sloop in the road, all belonging to Madrass. All of us, who were commanders, went a- shore, and landed at Bomb key, whence we proceeded to the Shabander, who conducted us to the castle before Abraham van Ribeck , General of India , who received us very civilly but was very inquisitive, and showed visibly an intention to find some pretence for denying us what we asked, and had occasion for. To satisfy him effectually, and prevent all disputes, we not only showed him our commissions, which, in fact, was all he had a right to demand; but we likewise gratified him with an extract of our journal and proceedings, that he might be convinced, that we had acted fairly, and done nothing, but what was justified by our commissions. After all, we were forced to bear, not only with his haughty airs, and the natural slowness of Dutch councils, but with many other disagreeable circumstances, that showed us plainly, we owed little, if any thing, to friendship or good-will. Soon after our arrival at Batavia , we went about fitting the Marquis ; but, being first ordered upon the careen, the shabander having allowed us several Malayan caukers, when we came down to the bends, we found them, as well as the stern and stern-post, so much worm-eaten and rotten.
S5- 1710. WOODES ROGERS, rotten, the ship being very old, and having only a single bottom, that we ordered a survey of carpenters to view her, who all agreed, there was no fitting her in that place for going about the Cape of Good Hope, her condition being extraordinary bad; which obliged us to hire a vessel to take out her lading. Then we applied ourselves to fitting of the other ships ; but could not, at any rate, obtain leave of the government to repair tO the Isle of Onreft ; but were allowed to go to the low small Island Horn, which is hear the other, inhabited by a few Malayan fishermen : And on it was abundance of cocoa-nuts, plantain, papa, guava, and other fruit-trees. The government allowed us a small vessel of that sort they call Champans , to careen our ships by. We then hove down the Duke and Duchess, and found their sheathing also very much worm- eaten in some places. The Duchess , in heaving down, sprung her fore-mast ; but we soon got another: And the Duke , after careening, was still leaky. The Marquis took in all the lading of the other ships, and l*y aboard on the off-side, to relieve the other ships when on the careen. When the ships were fitted, we rc<* turned again to Batavia road, where we rigged the three, and fold the Marquis , after taking out all the goods, and most of the stores, to Captain Opie and Captain Oldham, Then all the officers and men were distributed among the other ships, except one Dutchman who ran away. The weather was extreme hot during our stay. Many officers and men fell sick ; and I was one of the number. The master of the Duke, the gunner of the Duchess , and several of our men* died of the flux. John Read , a young man belonging to the Duchess, venturing to swim, had both his legs snapped off by a shark, which, at the second bite, before we could get him on board, took off the bottom of his belly; so that he was dead before we could take him up. During our stay, we had the liberty of the town and markets, to buy what we pleased; yet found it
to MAGELLANICA, 353 it very difficult to get salt provisions, and were there- 3710. fore obliged to kill several bullocks, and pickle the '^ rV flcsli, taking out all the bones. Arrack, rice, and fowls, were cheap; and beef not above two stivers a- pound. Several Englijh ships arrived here at this time; as the Rochester and Springer for China , Captain Opie in a separate stock-ship ; and others of those parts. The bay is seldom without some large Dutch vessels, driving a great trade from thence to all the countries round about. There are various descriptions of this famous city in all languages ; so that I might well dispense with a description of it here: But, as what I have to fay regards time as well as place, and may serve to exhibit a picture of the state os things at that particular juncture, I flatter myself, that the following succinct account will not be found either useless or disagreeable. The city of Batavia lies on the north-west side of the famous island of Java, in the latitude of 5 degrees 50 minutes south. The east and west winds blow all the year along the shore, besides the ordinary land and sea-winds, which exceedingly cool the air, and make it pleasant; otherwise it would be intolerably hot. Their summer begins in May, with continual breezes from the east, and a very clear sky, till the latter end of October, or beginning of November, when the winter begins with hard rains, which hold sometimes three or four days without intermission. In December the west winds blow very violently; so that there is little trade on the coast of Java. In February the weather is changeable, with sudden thunderstorms. In March they begin to sow, June is their pleasantest month. In September they gather in their sugar and rice. And, in October, they have plenty of fruit and flowers, plants and herbs of most sorts. There is a large, fenny, plain country before the city; but this is exceedingly well improved by the Dutch : And, to the east, it is very full of wood and morasses. The city is square, with a river running through it, Vol. III. and
354 WOOD ES ROGERS,- r/i o. and fortified by a strong wall, and twenty-two bastions.. W ' J About ten years past, there was an earthquake, which- 'overturned part of the mountains in the country, and altered the course of the river ; so that the canals in and about Batavia are not near so commodious as they have been, nor the entrance into the river so deep and, for want of a strong current of water to keep ic open, they are forced to employ a large engine to preserve the mouth of the river navigable, for small vessels to come into the canals of the city. It lies in a bay, in which there are seventeen or eighteen islands, which so break off the sea, that, though the road is very large, yet it is safe. The banks of the canals through the city are faded with stone on both sides, as far as. the boom, which is shut up every night at nine o'clock, and guarded by soldiers. There are channels cut out of the main river for smaller vessels; and every boom pays toll. All the streets run in strait lines* most of them being above thirty feet broad on each fide, clear of the channels, and paved next the houses with bricks. All the streets are very well built and inhabited, fifteen of which have channels ; and they reckon fifty six bridges on them, most of them of stone. The country-seats and buildings round the city are generally neat and well-contrived, with handsome gardens for fruit and flowers* fountains, and statues. The vast quantities of cocoa-nut trees every where afford delightful groves. They have fine structures here particularly the cross-church, built of stone, and the inside very neat. There are two or three churches for the Dutch , and two for the Portuguese Protestants, who are a mixed sort of people. There is one church also for the Protestant Malayans. The town-house is built of brick, in a square, about the centre of the city, two stories high, and very finely built; where all courts are held, and all matters relating to the civil government of the city are determined ; and the senators and directors of the military affairs meet. There is an inner
to MAGELLANICA, c ire.- 355 Ker court, inclosed with an high wall, and a double I 7 lc - row of stone-pillars, where the officers of justice live. Here are hospitals, spin-houses, ,and rafp-houfes, the fame as in Amsterdam , with all other public buildings, equal to most cities in Eurofe. The Chinese have also a large hospital in this city for their aged and lick persons and manage their charity so well, that you never fee a Chinese that looks despicable in the street. The Dutch women have greater privileges in India t than in Holland , or any where else for, on flight oc- calions, they are divorced from their husbands, and share the estate betwixt them. A lawyer told me at Batavia , he has known, out of fifty-eight causes all depending in the council-chamber, sifty-two of them were divorces. Great numbers of the natives, y/ho are criminals, are chained by pairs, and kept at hard labour, under a guard, perpetually clearing the channels and moats round the city, or any other work for the public. Three leagues west from the town is the Island Onrest , where all the company's ships are refitted. There are magazines of naval stores, defended by platforms of guns. And the castle at Batavia is quadrangular, lies in a level, and has four bastions and curtains, faced with white stones, and provided with watch-houses. In this castle, or rather citadel, the Dutch governour-general, and most of the mem- ' bers of the council of India , with the other officers of Batavia , have their residence. The gqvernour's palace is of bride, large, and well-built. In this palace is the council-chamber, the secretary's office, and chamber of accounts. The general's hall is hung with bright armour, ensigns, flags, &c. taken by the Dutch here. T,he governour gives audience to strangers, who are introduced to him by the shabander, who is commissioner of the customs. The garrison on duty is ■generally about 1000 strong; and all the outworks are laid to be furnished with provisions, as well as can be ; b.yt the soldiers are kept much under, except the go- Y y 2 vernour's
356 WOODES ROGERS, 1710. vernour's guards, who have large privileges, and make a fine appearance. The governour-general lives in as great splendour as a king : He has a train and guard ; viz. a troop of horse, and a company of foot, with halyards, in liveries of yellow sattin, richly adorned with filver-lace and fringes, to attend his coach, when he goes abroad. The guards are as well equipped as those of most princes in Europe. His lady has also her guards and train. He is chosen but for three years, out of the twenty-four counsellors, called Rads of India, twelve of whom must always reside in the city. The Chinese have the greatest trade here, farm most of the excise and customs, live according to their own laws, and are allowed their idolatrous worship; and have a chief, that manages their affairs with the company, who allows them great privileges, and particularly a representative in council, who has a vote, when any of the Chinese are tried for life. But these privileges are allowed only to such Chinese as inhabit here ; for others are not permitted to stay above fix months in the town, or on the Island Java. The other strangers, besides Europeans , are Malayans, with some from most parts of India. The Javanese, or ancient natives, are numerous, and said to be barbarous and proud, of a dark colour, and flat faces, thin, short, black hair, large Lye-brows and cheeks. The men are strong-limbed ; but the women are small. The former have a wrapper of calico three or four times round their bodies ; and the latter from their arm-pits to their knees. 'The men have two or three wives, besides concubines ; and the Dutch fay,'they are much addicted to lying and stealing. Those on the cOast are generally 'Mahometans ; but the others Pagans. The women are not so tawny as the' men, and many of them handsome; but, in general, amorous, and unfaithful to their husbands, being very apt to give poison, which they do very cuh - rtingly. The town is very populous; but not one sixth of them Dutch. The Chinese here go all bareheaded,
to MAG ELL A NIG A, 6 r c. 357 headed, 'with their hair rolled up, and long gowns, 1719, carrying fans in their hands, The Dutch fay., they are more industrious, and acute in trade, than themselves. The discipline and order of the Dutch here, both in civil and military affairs, is truly admirable. They have all the neceslaries for building and careening-ships, as well as in Europe ; and their officers as regular as in his Majesty's yards; whereas we have nothing like it in India. They keep the natives very much in awe, being perfectly despotic in their government*, because, they lay, the natives are naturally so treacherous, that they are obliged to punish them severely for small faults : But they are more tender to the Chinese , be* cause of the great trade they have by their means; and that they pay great rents for their shops, besides large taxes and from 16 to 30 per cent. for money, which they frequently borrow of the Dutch. 1 was told there are here about 80,000, who pay the Dutch a dollar a- head each month, for liberty to wear their hair, which they are not allowed to wear at home, since they were conquered by the Tartars. There come hither from China fourteen or sixteen large junks yearly, being flat- bottomed vessels, from 3 to 500 tons burden. The merchants come along with their goods, which are lodged in different partitions in the vessels, like warehouses, for which they pay a certain price, and not for the weight or measure of the cargo, as we do *, so they fill them with what they please. They come in with an easterly monsoon, and generally arrive in November or December, and return the beginning of June ; so that the Dutch have all Chinese commodities brought to them, cheaper than they can fetch them : And, being conveniently situated for the fpice-trade, they have all in their own hands. Batavia wants no commodities that India affords. They have seldom less than twenty tail of {hips at Java , from thirty to fifty and sixty guns each, with men enough for them on all occasions; lo that they might easily drive us out of most parts, :f not
z§? WOODES ROGERS, 1-/10. not all India, should we ever have an unfortunate war W ' J with them. Their soldiers are very well trained, and there is a company always on duty at every gate of the city and citadel; and they have 7 or 8000 disciplined Europeans in and about the city, who can be assembled and ready for action at a very short warning. It is the metropolis of .their Indian settlements, and sends governours and officers to all the rest. The late general, before we came hither, had war with the Indians, which, I was informed, had like to have spoiled their settlements; but, at last, they divided the natives amongst themselves, brought them to a peace on advantageous conditions, and are now pretty secure of the sea-coasts. There are many pleasant seats about the city, and the adjacent country abounds with rice, sugar-cane fields, gardens, and orchards, mills for sugar, corn, and gunpowder ; so that this is one of the pleasantest cities in the world. I do not think it so large as Brijlol ; but it is more populous. They have schools for Latin , Greek, &c. and a printing-house. They have lately begun to plant coffee here, which thrives very well; so that, in a little time, they may be able to load a strip or two: But I am told, it is not so good as that in Arabia. On the 17th of October we arrived at the watering- place on the main, having sailed from Batavia on the 14th. On the 19th, at two in the afternoon, we came to an anchor with our best bower, in a bay about a league to the westward of Java head, in fifteen fathoms water, ousy ground, about a mile from the shore ; sent our pinnace for water, and then our sail-maker, wonders, &c. Captain Pike , and Mr. Block, came in a boat from Batavia, the first of them, chiefly, after his steward, who I suppose, had concealed himself aboard the Bachelor. In the evening. Captain Pike lent us his boat and men we put into her several of our men, with arms and provisions from each ship, and sent her away to Pepper Bay, to buy fowls, and other fresh provisions,
to MAGELLANIC A, &c. 3:59' visions, giving them for that purpose knives, and o- ther toys, which the natives there value above money. In the evening we had much thunder, lightning, and rain, which put us in fear for the men sent to Pepper Bay ; continued wooding and watering till the 28th, and sent several men aihore to kill buffaloes, which being extremely wild, they could shoot none, and durst not stay at night by reason of the many tygersOne of them was very near seizing a man of ours, who, to save himseif was obliged to take the water; at least twenty shots were made ac the tyger before he went off, and they saw several others at the same time. The Indian king, and his people, dealt friendly with us, trucking fowls, and what else they'had to spare, for knives, and the like. They generally came aboard every day, and, we giving them some trifle at parting, they were kind to our men ashore. The wind being commonly at south-east, and a fresh gale, we were under some apprehensions for our men sent to buy fowls in Pepper Bay , having heard nothing of them since their departure, and mistrusting the boat might be overset, or the men detained by the Javans. but, on the 25th in the evening, the boat returned, to our great satisfaction, with the men, bringing about twelve dozen of fowl, some mangoes, &c. Captain Pike's steward came on board the Duchess , hoping we would conceal., him; but was immediately sent on board the Bachelor to his commander, who gladly received, and promised to pardon him. On the 28th of December, Mr. James Wase, our chief surgeon, died ; and we buried him decently the next day, with our naval ceremonies, as usual, being a very honest useful man, a good surgeon, and bred up at Lcyden , in the study os physic as well as surgery. We made land the 15th of December, came in with the shore the 18th, and had sounding in 60 and 70 fathoms, the ground grey gret with small stones and shells; had a strong southerly current, south latitude 34 degrees 2 minutes, longitude 334 degrees
Z6o 1710 <*rysj WO ODES ROGERS, • degrees 34 minutes west from London. The lame day- we had very hard flaws of wind off the high-land, till we came within sight of the Lion' s Head and Ritmpi two hills over the Cape Town-, and this day we arrived in the harbour of the Cape, saluted the Dutch fort with nine guns, and were answered by seven. We anchored in six fathoms water, about a mile off fliore, and' found only one Englijb ship, called the Donegal, Captain Cliff commander, homeward-bound from Mocho , and two Middle burghers, outward-bound for Batavia " in the harbour, besides the guard-ship, and two ot three galliots. On the 29th, we moored our ship, and got down our yards and top-masts, to guard against the hard flaws of wind off the Table-land, which frequently blow very fresh betwixt east-south-east and south-east. We sent sixteen sick men alhore. On the the 1 st of February, I offered some proposals, in writing, to Captains Dover and Courtney, with the rest of the committee; wherein I told them, it was my opinion, we should lose too much time to stay for the Dutch fleet, in order to have the benefit of her convoy to Hoi/and ; which would not only be out of our way, but very tedious and chargeable; and we having large quantities of decaying goods on board, the time we should lose by waiting for the Dutch , might be advantageously employed in Brafil , where we could lie in very little danger of the enemy, and vend them at great rates, and thence get to Bristol through the north channel, having the summer before us, continuing in the latitude of 55 degrees or y6 degrees, two or three hundred leagues before we got the length of the north of Ireland ; and by that means, might avoid the track of the enemy. I earnestly pressed, that, if they could not agree to this, one of our privateers might take this alone, and the other keep with the Bachelor and Dutch fleet. But the majority was against anything but going home with the Dutch fleet ail together; so that all I could do more, was to remind them of examining the goods,
TO M AGELLANICA, sic. 361 goods aboard the Bachelor , and to take out of her so 1711. much goods in i'afe package, as would lie in the like room of European goods, on board the Duchess .; that, if any accident should happen to the Bachelor , we might have part of her. value in another bottom. I desired, if any amongst them were not of this opinion, they would give their reasons to the contrary in writing; but we could agree on nothing. On April 5th, at day-break, the flag hoisted a blue ensign, loosed the foretop-sail, and fired a gun, as a signal to unmoor : As we were heaving in our cable, it rubbed against the oakham, which had got into the leak, and occasioned the siiip to be as leaky again as ever, she having been indifferent tight for some time, and we were in hopes it would have continued. About noon I came aboard very thin, and in no better health than I was. when I went first ashore at our arrival here : Presently after I went aboard the flag, there being a signal made for all the English commanders. We had before received our orders, which were very particular, and to be punctually observed. About four in the afternoon, the slag, vice, and rear-admirals, weighed with part of the fleet, and fell down to Robin's or Penguin Island, where they lay for the rest of the ships. On the 6th, in the afternoon, we all weighed from Penguin Island, being sixteen Dutch , and nine English ships, having a fine fresh breeze at south-south-east. The Cape of Good Hope has been so often described, that I do not think it necessary to detain the reader with any account of it here. There happened nothing remarkable in our voyage till June 5th, when our admiral made a signal for all the English commanders, and some of the Dutch skippers, to come on board ; where we found an excellent entertainment; and the good humour of the Dutch admiral soon made all the company understand each other without a linguist, though we had much ado to get one at first meeting : We parted before the sun-sct, and had a sine day. Vol. III. Z z The
/ 362 WOODES ROGERS, 1711-The 28th, being got into the latitude of 51 degrees v * r ^ north, we had thick foggy weather ; so that the flag 1]red two guns every half-hour, and each ship answered with one. This continued several days, which con- iumed a great deal of powder; but, by the noise of the guns, it was easy to keep company, though sometimes so thick for several hours, that we could not fee three ships lengths. On July 14th, we saw two ships in the afternoon; one of which we spoke with, being a Dane, bound for Ireland ; sire informed us of the Dutch men of war that were cruising for us off Shetland , (being ten fail) whom she saw four or five days ago, and reckoned herself now about forty leagues from the land. We had sounding then in seventy fathoms water, brown gravelly ground. I just had time to fend the owners a copy of my letters from the Cape of Good Hope ; and to let them know, that we were now got so far towards the conclusion of a fatiguing voyage. In the morning, we made Fair Island and Foul island , lying off of Shetland. Presently after we saw the meri of war; but, having little wind, and they a good way distant from each other, we could join but one of them by noon . The next day all the men of war joined us, except one ot two, with the iistung-doggers, which were cruising off to the north-east of Shetland. After mutual salutations, both by the English and the Dutch ships, one of the men of war was lent out to fee for the milling ships. The inhabitants of those islands came aboard with what provisions they had, being very poor people, and subsist most by fishing. On the 17, I wrote a single letter to the owners in general, by a Scots flshing-boat belonging to Shetland , advising them of our joining the men of war who are ordered with the fleet to the Text ?/, where we hoped to meet an English convoy. The Dutch India admiral, though But a company's ship, wears his flag ; gives signals and orders to the Dutch men of war, which is not suffered among the English; and, in the whole run from the Cape,
to MAGELLANIC A, 363 Cape, kept an exact discipline in the fleer, not suffer- 1711. ing any of the commanders to go out of the ships to w '-' visit each other at sea without a signal, or leave. On the 23d, the weather being close, the commodore made a signal about ten o'clock for seeing land ; presently all the fleet answered him with their colours, The pilot-boats coming off aboard the ships, we parted with the Rotterdam and Middleburgh ships, most of the men of war going with them to fee them safe in. The flag, and all the Englifio ships, saluted the commodore, and afterwards we saluted the flag, to welcome him in sight of Holland ; and, as soon as they were got over the bar, the Dutchmen fired at their safe arrival in their own country, which they very affectionately called Fatherland. About eight at night we all came safe to anchor in six fathoms water, about two miles off the shore. On the 24th, in the morning, the Dutch flag weighed, in order to go up to the unlivering-place : As he pasted by us, we gave him three huzzas, and nine guns. In the afternoon I went up to Amsterdam , where we had letters from our owners, to direct us how to act, and proceed from hence. On the 28th, the English East-India ships had orders to be in readiness for sailing with the first Dutch convoy for London. We got some provisions aboard from Amsterdam on the 30th. When 1 came aboard, en the ist of August, by consent of our council, we discharged what men we shipped at Batavia and the Cape, and afterwards went a- way from Amsterdam. On the 4th, the Duchess and Bachelor went up the road called the PHdler, being a better road than the 5 Vexel. In the evening, we had news of some of our owners being at the Hildar; Mr, Pope went to wait upon them, and, in the morning, came aboard with them : After a short stay, they went for the Duchess and Bachelor, designing thence for Amsterdam. We welcomed them with fifteen guns at their corning and going. The English East-India ihips, and L z 2 others.
3 6 4 WOODES ROGERS, 171 x. others bound for England , weighed with the Dutch convoy the fame day, having a fine gale at north-east. On the 6th, we weighed from the Texel, and went up to our consorts, it being by a particular order from the owners, for our better security, being obliged to wait here, fearing the India company would be troublesome, although we had dealt for nothing but necessaries in India. In order to obviate this, and convince the world, as well as the Eajl-India company, of our honesty and good conduct in this respect, the officers first drew up an affidavit, setting forth there never was any commerce carried on in the Indies, or any transactions of buying and selling, but for provisions and other things, for the ships; and, that no suspicion might remain, an abstract of our journal was drawn up, and the best part of the ship's company voluntarily swore to it. On the 19th in the afternoon, we had news of our convoy lying without the Texel-, which was very acceptable to the crews of each ship, who were in the utmost uneasiness at our long stay, being just at home, so that we had much ado to keep the companies aboard, till now we got every thing in readiness, in order for falling down to them. On the 20th, about five in the afternoon, we got down to the Texel, where we found our convoy at anchor, being the E£'ex, Canterbury, Medway, and Dunwich men of war. On the 2 2d in the morning, the wind being at north-east, we weighed from the Texel, and by ten of the dock got dear of the channel. In the ■ afternoon, the commodore took the Bachelor in tow; and next morning, the wind being against us, we bore away again for the harbour; as did likewise four Dutch men of war, that came out with us, bound for London y After seeing us safe in, he stood off to the northward, with the Canterbury and Medway , but came in the next morning. On the 24, our Officers met, where,- consulting, that our three ffiips wanred necessaries to keep the sea, in case we should meet with bad weather, we requested Captain
to MAGELLANIC A, tec. z6Z Roffey, our commodore, that he would please to stay, l 7 **• should the wind be fair, till such time as we could be provided with the said necessaries from Amsterdam \ which was granted. On the 30th, at break of day, we weighed, as did likewise four Dutch men of war. On the ist of October, about eleven o'clock, \ye came to an anchor in the Downs, where several of our owners came on board ; and, after they had visited every ship, went on shore with some prisoners, to examine them about our capture, &c. At three this morning, the EJfcx made a signal to unmoor; and betwixt nine and ten weighed, he being ordered up to the Buoy in the Here, and we to make the best of our way to the Hope. October 14, at eleven o'clock, we and our consort got up to Eriff, where we came to an anchor, which ends our long and fatiguing voyage. It was owing to this expedition of Woodes Rogers , that the spirit of privateering in the South Seas was not totally lost in England, where abundance of art had been used to propagate an opinion, that it was limply impoffible for any privateer-squadron to act with success, at least for their owners; and that, if any thing was taken, it must be in a buccaneering-way, that is, for the sole advantage of the crew: But, in all these respects, this voyage has undeceived us, and plainly shown, that, under proper command, our people are able to do as great things now, as ever they did in the days of Elizabeth-, and, indeed, it is offering the greatest indignity to our seamen to think otherwise. A- tnong the rest of the bug bears invented to terrify our people from going into those seas, one was, the dreadful treatment they met with from the Spaniards, when, by any accident, they fell into their hands. As to this, Captain Rogers has set the matter in its true light. He deplores the loss of Mr. Hat ley in the most affecting terms ; probably from an opinion, that he might be starved at sea, or forced to live ashore on some of the barren Callapagos islands,; but he very fairly tells us,
z66 WOODES ROGERS, 1711.US, that, after that gentleman fell into the hands of the Spaniardsy he was very kindly treated, and sent up to Lima as a prisoner of war, which was what he had. reason to expect. It is indeed true, that, when he and' his boat's company landed at Cape Pajfao, and surrendered themselves, they were very barbarously used, having their hands tied behind them, hung up by their necks, and almost half-flayed with whips: But then, by whom was this done ? Why, by a mixed people, the offspring of Negroes and Indians, who bore an implacable hatred to every man of a white complexion, out of mere averlion to the Spaniards. In this distrels they had probably ended their days, but for a priest, who interposed, and preserved them. As for the Engliflomen that remained in that country, (which is perhaps the hardest cafe that can be put, with respect to the danger of those expeditions) Captain Stradlingy of whom we have said so much in a preceding article, after returning safe to London , tho* he remained long a prisoner in those countries, gives, us the following account of their condition, melancholy indeed, as exiles from their native country, but not very frightful in other respects. " In MexicOy the prisoners, who ar? employed in. " cutting logwood, have no way to escape the severi- " ty of the Spaniardsy but to turn Pafijlsy and be bap* " tized after their manner: Then they have the liber- " ty to chuse a godfather, who is generally a man of " note, arid they serve him as a footman in livery. " One Boyfey who joined Captain Rogers at Guiaquily " was baptized there by an abbot in the Cathedral of " Mexico-, had salt put into his mouth, and oil pour- " ed upon his head ; and small parcels of cotton, " which rubbed it off, were distributed as precious re- " lies among the penitents, because taken off the head. " of a converted Heretic, as they called him. The " native Spaniards enjoy all posts in the church and " monasteries, and admit no Indians, nor any mixed " breed,
to MAGELLANIC A* &c.' 367 " breed, to those preferments; which they think a l 7 Ilu u necessary piece of policy, that they may the better *' keep the country m subjection to Spain. Some of " those prisoners, who are forced to be pretended con- " vers, do now and then make their escape, though " it be dangerous to attempt it; for, if taken, they " are generally confined to the work-houfes for life. There are several Englishmen , who were prisoners in this country; that, by compliance, have obtained ** their liberty; particularly one I homos Bull, who " was born in Dover , and taken in Campeachy. He was * c a clockmaker, had been eighteen years here, and " was about forty-five years old ; lives in the province " of Tabasco, and grown very rich. One Captain " Thompson, born in the Isle os IVighi , had been here " about twenty years, is about fifty years old, grown " rich, and commanded the Mulattoes, who took " Captain Pack at the beginning of the war. The " person who told me this, was a comb-maker, and " endeavoured to escape from La Vera Cruz ; but was " taken, and sent prisoner to Mexico, where he came " off to Peru, after he had his liberty, by pretending " he went to buy ivory to make combs. He gave " me a long account of his ramble amongst the In- u dianSi and fays, that he was at the mouth of the " river Misssippi, which falls into the Gulf of Mexico " " but could not pass it: He adds, that the Indians, " on the Bay Pillachi, have murdered several of the " Padres , out of an aversion to the Spaniards, but fhow- " ed a great inclination to trade with the English. " Such of them as will not turn Papists, are kept in " close custody, either in the mines, or work-houfes, " at Mexico, which city is about as long as Bristol. " Those that are put in work-houfes are chained, and employed in carding of wool^ rasping of logwood, " &c. They have more manufactures of woollen and ' x linen in Mexico than in Peru : Abundance of raw ** silk is brought from China: And, of late years, " wrought
3 68 1711. " W>-sudden in the woods. There is also a strange creature in those woods, called by the Spaniards an Ounce , much of the size of a wolf-dog; but it has talons, and the head is more like that of a tyger: It kills men and beasts, which makes travelling through the woods dangerous; yet this creature is reported to eat nothing but the heart of its prey. I had
to MAGELLANICA. 3 6 9 . " had many more relations from this man, whohadiyn; " been seven years a prisoner in this country; but * s they being too tedious, I shall add nothing more " concerning Mexico , but that the worm is larger, " and eats the bottoms of the lhip more, on its lea- " coast, than any other place. All the coasts, from " Guiaquil in Peru, to the northward, as far as the la- " titude of to degrees in Mexico, are reckoned un- l£ healthy, but the contrary from Guiaquil south- " ward." The next remarkable thing in this voyage, is the prudence shown in the œconomy of it, which ought to recommend it as a precedent on all such occasions for the future; and this excellent management appeared particularly in the method taken of holding councils before any transactions of importance, to consider the proper means for effecting it ; and then, when the thing was fresh in every body's head and memory, to bring the conduct of the affair under examination, so as to procure another resolution ot the committee, either approving or disapproving it. By this measure all facts were lo effectually settled, that they would admit of no disputes after they came home; and it is very plain, that the debates which happened aboard, were hindered from growing to a dangerous height by this very thing: For, as nothing could be absolutely determined while they were aboard, every body was anxious and assiduous in fettling properly the papers, upon the testimony of which, the sense of their owners, in regard to their conduct, was to be determined ; and thus the hopes ot prevailing at home, made people ealy under what they took to be hardships a- broad. In saying this, however, I differ in opinion from Captain IVoodes Rogers, who, though he had experienced the benefits resulting from this method of acting, yet is pleased to say, " Another great incon- " veniency we laboured under, was the want of power " to try offenders, as on board his Majesty's Ihips of Vol. III. 3 A ' war 5
370 W 00 DES ROGERS, 3711." war-, which obliged us to connive at many difos-' '•'orJ " ders, and to be mild in our punishments : But " which was still worse, there was no sufficient power " lodged in any one hand to determine differences a- " mongst our chief officers 5 which was a great omis- " lion, and might have proved of dangerous conse- " quence, because of the divisions which happened " amongst us." Yet I dare fay it will be apparent, notwithstanding the captain's observation, that if any such power had been lodged, even in himself, it must have done more hurt. than good ; since nothing but the incertainty of whose conduct would be approved or disapproved at their return, prevented Malecontent officers from endeavouring to form parties among the ship's company, which, reason and experience shows us, is the most dangerous thing that can happen in expeditions of this fort ; and which, as the reader will remember, proved the ruin of Captain Dampief s design, of which we have given a long account in a preceding Article : But it is natural for men in power to believe the extension of their own authority as profitable to others, as agreeable to themselves. A third circumstance that deserves regard, is the weakness of the Spaniards for it appears plainly, that they were not, at this time, in a much better condition than when Drake and Cavendijh ravaged their colonies ; aud of this Captain Rogers was so sensible, that, in the preface to his book, he lays it down as a thing extremely practicable, not only to plunder the Spams)) settlements on the coast, but even to iix garrisons there, which, he thinks, it would not be in the power of the Spaniards to expel, before they received a relief from Britain. " Our taking of Guiaqttil, fays " he, with an handful of raw undisciplined men, is a " sufficient proof of this ; and they may soon fortify " themselves, lo as no power, that can be brought a- " gainst them, would be able to dislodge them. The " whole Spar.ijh force in that sea consists but of three " small
to MAGELLANICA. 3? 1 <c small stops ; and their land-troops are so little accuse 1 7 1 r * " tomed to war, that they are not able to look a bo- W ' J " dy of disciplined men in the face, as we ourselves " and others have found by experience : Besides, the " natives of Chilis who are a brave people, have such " an aversion to the Spaniards , because of their cruel- " ty and opprellion, that, when they find the mildness " of an Englijh government, they will readily join us, " in order to be. freed from that intolerable servitude, " under which they have groaned so long." I will not take upon me to say, that, at this time, such a scheme as he recommends would be practicable ; but this, I think, I may safely say, that nothing that has since happened, down to the time of the present war, has shown such a design to be impossible. At the time Captain Rogers wrote, he had before his eyes the example of the French carrying on, partly with, and partly without the consent of the Spaniards , such a commerce in that part of the world, as enabled them to make head against the rest of all Europe : Which is a circumstance that deserves to be very well considered ; since, if the wealth of Spain, in the hands of France, may prove the ruin of all her neighbours, it seems to be a natural inference, that it is not only lawful, but absolutely incumbent upon us, to prosecute the only method that can possibly prevent it. The account he has given of the matter is this: " The French sent " from Rockelle, in 1698, two stops, under the com- " mand of M. Beauchesne-Gonin, of 'St. Malo, to the " South Sea, with a cargo of goods, to try what could " be done in trade there, as appears by his Journal. * i They have so improved his discovery, and carried " on such a vast trade in those seas ever since, that " there have been in the South Sea, in one year, se- venteen ships of war and merchantmen, with all " sorts of goods; and the advantage they made of it " was so great, that I was informed, by several mer- chants whom we took in those seas, that, by a.mo- 3 A 2 dest
372 VJU. WOODES ROGERS, " deft computation, the French , in a few of the first:' " years of that trade, carried home ioo millions of " dollars, which is near twenty-five millions sterling, " "besides the advantages they made by trading to the " North Sea, when they convoy the Spanijh galleons " and Flota to and from the Weji-Indies This was written before the close of the last war; and it is worthy of notice, that, since the present war commenced, the French and Spaniards have had recourse again to the same expedient, I mean that of licensing ships from St. Malo to trade to the South Seas, contrary not only to treaties, but in direct violation of the privileges of the native Spaniards , who cannot but be sensibly affected, to see the only trade they have, and by which alone they are able to bear the heavy burden of a French government, thrown into the hands of foreignefs. But, however angry they may be, it does not appear, that at this juncture they have the means of redressing this grievance in their own hands; whereas, so far as it affects us, we certainly have ; and, either by following these French interlopers into -the South Seas, or by watching them closely in their return home, may render ineffectual this expedient for turning the riches of the new world to the subversion of the peace of the old. If this cannot be done, our ruining the French trade elsewhere will fall short of the end proposed ; because, being temporary only, if they can si nd a way to carry on this commerce effectually in thb mean time, it will, in a great measure, supply the losses, they sustain in the other branches of their commerce : As, on the other hand, if we can put an end to this, as well as to the rest, it must soon bring the war to a conclusion ; for the modern maxim, that money does all things, is never found more agreeable to truth, than when applied to military affairs, which demand so great and lo constant an expence, that, if a nation cannot supply it, she must be content to accept of those terms, and remain in that condition, which her neighbours are
to MAG EL L A NIC A* &c. 37 3 ire willing she should be in ; and this is that condition 17-11. to which 1 conceive we would be willing to reduce the French. Before I take my leave of this subject, I cannot forbear putting the reader in mind of the great utility of Voyages to the South Seas * and observing, that, as: these can never be undertaken but when we are at war with the Spaniards , so that opportunity ought never to be let slip ; since, otherwise, we are in danger of losing all knowledge of that navigation, to which we have a right in common with the rest of mankind* which, some time or other, may turn to the infinite advantage of the Britijh nation. The reader has seen what succession of adventurers there has been from the days of Queen Elizabeth to this time ; all of whom have intimated the mighty advantages that might be expected from our endeavouring to fix in some part, rather than be continual wanderers in the South Seas. The grand objection has been, that it is very difficult to furnish provisions for so long an expedition, or to keep our ships sufficiently manned, so as to be in a condition of fettling when they come thither. But, perhaps, we ought to inquire, whether these difficulties really spring from the design itself, or from our method of managing it; for, undoubtedly, if there be not as much of prudence in the conduct of a public scheme, as is generally seen in the management of a private concern, we may easily guess what will be the fate of it. The good sense and great attention of the Bristol merchants appear in the precautions they took for the rffiht Management of this expedition, which effectually answered their intentions: And shall we be weak enough to believe, that a project, formed for the common benefit of the Britifi nation, might not be as well regulated, and as successfully executed, as one which tended only to the benefit of a few merchants in one of its ports ? It is easy enough to conceive, that if wrong methods are used, or right ones neglected, if ships go 1 out
374 t 7 11 ■ WOODES ROGERS, out at improper seasons of the year, [heavily loaded,, with things unnecessary, commanded by unexperienced or fresh-water seamen, who think any hardship intolerable, we need not wonder that things miscarry. But this very voyage of Captain IVood.es Rogers clearly demonstrates such a design to be very practicable, notwithstanding what is daily thrown out to make the contrary notion gain belief; for their Ihips were much stiller of men than is usual for ships of their burden, and yet they carried provisions for sixteen months; which puts it beyond all dispute, that men of war and transports may conveniently go on this expedition, well filled with men, and carry twelve months provision at least for each ship : Besides, for every man of war, or transport, that carries considerable numbers of men, a proportionable victualler may be allowed, with no more mei) than are enough to fail her;, so that soe may carry eight or ten months provisions more for the other Ihips,'that embark the men. Thus a sufficient number may go for a settlement, and fully victualled for twenty-two months, which is time enough, and to spare, to go and return from the South Seas; and, if any stiip should lose company, there is little danger of their meeting again at places appointed for rendezvous. It is true, the distance from home is gneat, but the ships that have traded thither find it an easy passage in a proper season and their men continue more healthful, than those that trade to the IVefi-Indies by the North Seas. The general distemper in such long voyages is the scurvy; and the methods to prevent the ill effects of it are so well known, that they may be easily provided against. The ships may likeyvise refresh by the way, first at the Cape de Verd Islands, and then at Brazil ; betwixt which, and the South Sea, is the longest passage, and that, in all probability, cannot exceed ten weeks at sea ; so that, when they arrrive at Chili , the climate is so wholesome, and agrees so well with European constitutions, that such as are sick speedily
To MAGjELLANICA, &c. 375 dily recover. Then, as to proper places for a settle-1711. ment, where provisions abound, there are so many of W '' J them on the coast of Chili, £cc. that a body of men disciplined, and under good commanders, may easily fettle there. It is not indeed easy to say, where such a settlement might be made with the greatest probability of success ; but, sure, it is very strange, that no attempt has been hitherto made to discover that continent that lies between California and Japan ; since, that there is such a continent, seems to be a point the Spaniards are as industrious to conceal, as other nations are negligent of inquiring after it, though none of their subjects, that ever were in thole seas, quitted them, without recommending it to the notice of their countrymen. Sir Francis Drake , the first, and, perhaps, the most known of our discoverers, took possession of California , with this view particularly. The brave Cavendish , his only rival in reputation, suggested the same thing; and, if I mistake not, delivered his thoughts at large on this subject, in a discourse directed to the Queen his mistress, and delivered to his patron the Lord Hunfdon , in relation to a map of China , which he brought over, and of which I shall have occasion to speak more largely in another place. Captain Dampier , though he was far from being a deep politician, yet saw and mentioned the expediency of some such settlement; which was again hinted by Captain Rogers. If the reader should incline to be farther inf armed, as to the advantages that might be reasonably expected from our having a colony in those parts, I will endeavour to give him some satisfaction in that particular. First then, this situation would afford us an opportunity or corresponding in both the East and fVeft-Indies , and that with much greater ease than the Spaniards find in carrying on their trade between Manilla and Acapulco ; occause we should not have above half the run of their ship to either of the Indies ; and, as the winds on that coast are constant and regular, we must,
37 5 iyrx. WOODfiS ROGERS, must, in the space of a few years, establish a safe and certain correspondence. In the next place, there is the highest probability, that, in such a climate, we might meet with, or, in a short space, create, a considerable demand for our coarse cloths, and other manufactures, which Would be doubly advantageous to the nation, by encouraging industry at home* and increasing and enlarging our navigation. There is another circumstance that deserves to be mentioned, and it is this ; that such a colony would give Us an opportunity of examining effectually, whether there be any such thing as a practicable passage into these seas, either from the northeast, or the north-west; which is an old question revived of late years, and with good reason, since the solution of it would not only redound to the benefit of several nations, but to that of Europe in general. If, notwithstanding all that has been said, there should appear something romantic, or perhaps ridiculous, in supposing the public councils of this nation in such a situation, as that projects of this fort should be esteemed worthy their notice, or any part of our naval force employed at such a distance, and where their commanders could expect so little, even from the success of their undertaking, what hinders, that a private company, by which 1 mean a copartnership of particular merchants, may not carry into execution such a design ? We have seen, by a variety of instances, by the East-India Company, in Holland , by the English East-India Company, by our Levant , by our Hudsons- bay, but, especially by our Rustia Company, what private merchants are able to do, if properly countenanced and encouraged. The Dutch and Eng- lif j East-India Companies rose both of them out of private undertakings, while the State wifely affisted and supported them by her authority, for the fake of, promoting the public good. If, therefore, at this juncture, when there are lo many private men who have acquired large fortunes, while the settled and ordinary trade of the nation is, in fame measure, necessarily suspended
To MAGELLANIC A, &c. 3 77 . suspended by the war; while the interest of the pub-1711- lie debt continues low, and yet that debt is daily in- W ' J creasing ; if, I fay, while things are in such a situation, a body of merchants should undertake to discover new countries, and to make new settlements, what reason is there to doubt of their meeting with encouragement and success ? There needs no mighty sum to fit out two privateers, and a tender; and, besides, the very expences of the voyage might be probably borne by the prizes taken in the South Seas, or both schemes purlued at once, by wintering in California , and waiting the arrival of the Acapulco ships upon these coasts. It is on all hands acknowledged, that the climate is temperate and healthy, that the natives are friendly and honest, that the opposite continent of America is Very rich, and but thinly peopled by the Spaniards ; so that, on the whole* -there is nothing astonishing or absurd in supposing, that three or four hundred men, well disciplined, and under experienced commanders, should maintain themselves here, without any great difficulty or inconvenience, for seven, eight, or nine months: We think it no hardship to keep them continually on shipboard, for two or three years in other services, to at least as little purpose. There is, however, another thing to be considered, and it is this ; that, failing from California in a higher latitude than usual, they might, if they found it practicable, winter in any new-discovered port, and be sure to return time enough to Calfornia , to accomplish the other part of their scheme; or, if they should fail of meeting with a proper port in any of the islands or continent N between California and the Eajl-Indies , they may continue their voyage to China , where they might find themselves at liberty to form and execute new projects, equally honourable- to themselves, and advantageous to their owners. At all events, therefore, a scheme of this fort, judiciously carried into execution, must be very beneficial to the nation ; It would serve Vol. III. 3 J 3 to
378 WOODES ROGERS, 1711. to extirpate old errors, by informing us of new truths; it would heighten our credit for maritime power and skill, it would exercise men of active spirits, improve their natural parts, and point out to them the means of transmitting wealth to their descendents, and their own fame to latest posterity. If it should be demanded, why I am ib warm in recommending such a design -, my answer is, because I think it for the service of my country, which can never be made happy at home, or maintain her reputation abroad, but from the appearance of such a spirit, as would be necessary to accomplish such a design : And therefore to labour in exciting this, seems the highest point of patriotism, of which a private man is capable. If a severer critic Ihould inquire, what connection this has with my history ; I answer, the closest that can be : For, to what end do we record the transactions of times past, but that they may become examples to succeeding ages ? This voyage of the Duke and Duchess was, by far, the most successful of any that was ever set on foot at the expence, and under the management, of private merchants ; and, beheld in that light, is, of all others, the properest to encourage Britijh traders to exert themselves in the fame way. 1 might, perhaps go too far, should I assert, that this voyage gave rife to the South Sea Company-, but thus much I can safely say, that the success of this voyage was what the patrons of that Company chiefly insisted upon in their defence, when the plan of if was attacked as insufficient and chimerical. I shall however conclude with this remark; that, as this is the last English voyage of its kind so prosperous, and so well conducted, as to merit such observations, so the succinctness with which I treat the rest, will sufficiently excuse my dwelling so long on soa- greeable and so important a subject. Remarks.
to MAGELLANICA, &c. 3 79 REMARKS. This journal, so useful to every mariner who wants so form himself to long voyages, was written by Captain Rogers, and is one of the most useful pieces we have on this subject. His book is better wrote than Rich journals commonly are; and the author, like an intelligent officer, compares all along what he had read, with what he saw during his run. We need lcarce inform our readers, that the celebrated romance of Robinson Crusoe , the work of Daniel de Foe , is founded on the story here related of Selkirk, a Scotch sailor, who was left on the istand of Juan Fernandez. The run of Captain Rogers , from the coast of California to the Hands was generally under the i zth parallel, fearing the shoals which are said to lie at a greater distance from the Equator. This part of his journal is valuable, containing a particular account of the distances, degrees, and variation of the needle. We find that he treated in an amicable manner with the Spaniards on the Isle of Guam. This colony being removed to a vast distance from the continents of Europe, AJia , and America , considered itself as a neutral people, and did not interfere in the disputes carried on in other parts of the Spanish empire. ARTICLE IV. Louis Feuulee to Magdlanica. T HIS article is extracted from the Journal of the phy- 1728. sic al, mathematical, and botanical observations ^r-> made by Father Femllee, a Minim, on the coasts of South America. He was a correspondent of the Academy of Sciences, and his observations, which contain many curious and important particulars, were printed at Pa- .. 3 B 2 ris,
' 3 8o LOUIS FEU 1 LLEE, 170 B.rtSy 1714, in two volumes quarto. Our Journalist - K * rJ was a disciple of the celebrated and was sent, as King's mathematician, to the South Sea. The instructions given him for the proper discharge of his employment, and the account of the instruments he made use of, are to be found in his book, and are well worth the perusal; though we give nothing here, but what relates immediately to our subject: And as it never was transiated into English before, we imagine our intelligent readers will be pleased with this lhort extract from a very useful work. The author sailed from Marseilles r December 14, 1707. " During the stay I made in 1708 at Rio de la Plata , I had occasion to see a singular animal, called Chinceh , which is found near the Straits of Magellan , and which, at first view, I mistook for a fox. Having shot the creature, I attempted to carry him to my tent, where my pencils and colours were, in order to draw the figure; bujt a terrible stench exhaling from the animal's body, ' obliged me quickly to leave him on the ground, and to take his figure from a considerable distance. He is of the size of a cat, his head long and sharp, having the lower jaw standing out beyond the tipper one. His throat opens quite back to the eyes, which are long and strait. His ears are large, and somewhat resemble those of the human race; but the cartilages of this organ are turned inwards, and their whole torm indicates a great sensibility of hearing. Two white stripes begin on the head, and passing above the ears, diverging still from each other, terminate in a circular form on each side the belly. His feet are lhort, the paws divided into five toes, well armed with long black nails, and with these he digs his burrow in the earth. His back is vaulted, like that of a hog -, but the lower belly is quite fiat. The tail is of the fame length with the body, exactly like that of a fox. His hair is of a dark grey, and about the length of a cat's. Having finished my drawing, I returned towards the tent, but before I got within ten paces of it, the intolerable
to MAGELLANIC A, Ar. z8l ierable stench I brought with me, alarmed the officers, 1708' who would not permit me to enter. Then 1 was obliged to cause other cloaths be brought me to the river-fide, and, having shifted from head to foot, I laid the infected cloaths to steep in water a day and a night, when I imagined 1 might venture to take them out ; but, having dried them in the fun, I found they still retained this villainous smell, nor were they entirely freed from it, till the cloaths were exposed eight or ten days longer to the open air. This nauseous scent proceeds from the urine of the animal; for, being pursued, he pisses on his tail, and thus sings it about. The stench is so very foetid, that no creature can endure it, and his enemy immediately flies from him as fast as he can. He uses the same method to guard the entry of his hole or den, at the entrance of which he pisses. This animal is very fond of fowl of all kinds, and it is probably owing to them, that so few of the feathered species are found hereabouts. November 17, I made some experiments with the barometer betwixt eleven and twelve o'clock, at the summit and at the foot of mount Video. At the top of the mountain the mercury stood at 27 inches, 9 lines; and at the foot, I found it 28 inches, 3 lines. Thus the difference was six lines, according to the ingenious progression established by Maraldi, allowing 61 feet for the first line of difference, for the second 62 feet, for the third 63, and so on : The six lines of the mercury's fall give, for the elevation of the hill 63 fathoms, three feet above the level of the sea. V" 7 ere we assured that the same progression took place in every atmosphere, we have here an easy method of determining the altitude of every mountain : But, by some observations 1 made nearer to the equator, I found that, in this zone, the air being more rarified, the geometrical progression is greater on each line of difference in the height of the mercury. I afterwards repeated this experiment on a mountain in Peru, measuring its height, first by the triangles, and secondly, by the barometer. 4
Z 82 LOUIS LEUILLEE 1708, barometer. The first gave me 146 fathoms, one foot, W " J as the elevation of the mountain from its base to the top-, the second, made with two good barorfieters, that had been often tried and adjusted, gave me a difference of ten fines and an half in the height of the mercury'. To make this correspond to 146 fathoms, one foot, we must allow 74 feet for the first line, 76 to the second, 78 to the third, and thus forward in the fame progression. This evidently proves the difference on the weight of the atmosphere *. ■ 'Ria de la Plata was formerly called by the natives Amara Magu, the River of Serpents, from the vast numbers of these reptiles seen in it. Juan Diaz de S0 - Us was the first that entered it, in 1575. Being misled by the friendly reception of the Americans, he landed, where both he, and all his company, were massacred, and eaten by the Savages. Sebastian Cabot afterwards failed up the river many leagues, and brought back a good quantity of silver from the interiour parts of the codntry. Hence the Spaniards gave it the name of La Plata . On leaving this river, I found its mouth, at Cape St. Mary., lay in 326 degrees, 29 minutes longitude, from the meridian of Teneriff. December 14, 1708, we began to see whales, and vast numbers of porpoises. Here I noticed, as also in the South Sea, that whales are subject to periodical evacuations of blood, like women, and this was also confirmed to me by the Indians. The cold increased, as we made way to the southward. Two days afterward we saw Cape Blanco , and in the afternoon we found the shores, of a different figure from those seen in the morning -, being low, and quite barren, with white sand on the coasts. Here we believed we saw Port Desire in a deep bay. In the evening we were almost * The reader will find some very ingenious observations on this subject. Hist.de l'Acad. des Scienc. anno 1703. Bouguer Voy. de Peru ; and Hist. des Terr. Austr. vol. 2. p. 175. These observations were first made by Maraldi and Cajjtni, while marking the famous meridian line in France. ashore
to MAGELLANIC A, Ac. 383 ashore on a rift of rocks, fix leagues off the land, 1408. (316 degrees longitude, 59 minutes latitude; 48 de- W ' J grees, 17 minutes, south latitude.) Here I examined the declination of the needle, which is always difficult to do at sea; and therefore I do not absolutely depend on it. It appeared to vary 7 degrees towards the south, and its declination was more than 19 degrees. I afterwards found, that, in the city Conception , (lat. 360 degrees, 42 minutes,) that the point of the needle declined 6 degrees, 30 minutes, below the horizontal plain; and at Lima I found it 3 degrees, 25 minutes *. The 18th, we had sight of Cape Virgins , at the entry of the Straits of Magellan..^ It is. a precipice, and very easy to distinguish. The top is flat, of a middling height, whence it declines gradually towards the sea. The public is well acquainted with the misfortunes the Spaniards have met with here at different times. Garcia de Loiaija , in the 1526, having got out into the South Sea, was there attacked by a tempest, that dispersed his fleet, and funk the Admiral's ship, not a single man escaping. In the 1540, the ships equipped by the Bishop of Placentia met here a storm from west, that wrecked three of the fleet. The crews got to land, among whom were some priests, and 18 or 20 women. The4th vessel escaped, but the Capt. regardless of the cries of his unfortunate companions, and fearing to want provisions, should he take them on board, continued his course, and, getting out of the Straits, arrived at Lima. It is thought, that those who were left here, became the founders of a colony, called by the people of Chili, Caefareans, who inhabit that tract situated betwixt the North and South Seas, in 43 and 44 * This contradicts Richer's observation at Cayenne. He does not believe that the needle placed horizontally declines in proportion to the height of the pole, for a needle that declined at Paris 7? degrees north, declined yo degrees to the fame quarter at Cayenne ; now this variation bears no proportion to the height of the pole. Vide Hist. de'l'Acad. des Scien. anno 1674. degrees,
Z84 Louis feuillee 17S8. degfees, south latitude. This country is extremely agree-f, able and rich, bounded on the west by a large and rapid river; and some say, they have been upon its banks, and saw on the further shore numbers of people of a complexion entirely different from the natives of this part of the world that they saw white cloaths hung out to dry, and heard bells tolling; an evident mark of Christianity. I learned, while in Chili, that the entry of this country of the Cœsareans , is strictly prohibited to every Spaniard, and that, in order to preserve their liberty, these people have 3 law, that whoever discovers the entry of their country, and betrays the grand secret of the republic, shall be immediately put to death, even though it were their chief. This particular they had from an Indian , one of their spies, who had been gained to betray them by a zealous priest, who had often seen them from the batiks of the river, and earnestly wished to preach the gospel to them. The Indian, having promised to show him the way, after they had got near the place, concealed the priest and his servant in the woods, promising to return in the night, and conduct him into the town. He accordingly returned, but instead of conducting him to these people, he murdured the Father, and his servant, escaping by flight, returned to Chilis and told the story *. December 20, we saw Cape St. John, the eastern extremity of Staten Land. According to my observation* this cape lies 2 degrees, 20 minutes south from Cape Virgin, and 3 degrees, 25 minutes east of it. its figure is terminated by two high points of rocks, and two * This history is apparently a fiction. We find it in no other account of these countries. It is true, one of the bishop's ships was wrecked off Posseffion-bay, and the crew, consisting of 250 persons, was abandoned. See Vol. I. b. I. art. v. p. no. They were never more heard of. If any thing of such a colony was ever seen, it must be some mission os the Jesuits in Paraguay; and our author is deceived in the situation, by a wrong latitude laid down, much too far to the south. others,
to MAGELLANIC A, 6c. 385 others, which are lower, appear to detach themselves 1708. from it, as you advance towards the east : Over it are w ° seen several high mountains in the inland. Beyond this we saw three low, and long iilands, or rather, perhaps, parts of the main land, which, from. their distance and flatness, appeared to be detached from it. At the very extremity of Cape St. John are three rocks. Next morning, the lands, which the preceding evening were green, appeared quite white, by the snow that had fallen, but this ioon melting, the country regained its former verdure, and 1 was very sorry not to have an opportunity of going on shore, as well to look for plants, as to determine the true situation of the island ; but when one comes to ask seamen to put out a boat for these purposes, they treat you as a visionary, having no knowledge of the value of the sciences, nor do they consider how seldom such opportunities offer for making advances in the knowledge of them. Here we saw many birds, whose wings seemed out of all proportion to the smallness of their bodies. The nights lost their obscurity, but the thickness of the atmosphere render- td the day very dark : Thus we could scarce distinguish day from nig Ut: No candles were lighted, and yet we saw very well to read at midnight. Thus all our hours were confounded, nor did we know what time to give out meals. Having at last got into 6 o degrees, south latitude, 309 degrees, 30 minutes, longitude, the sky began to clear, Jan. 2, 1709 : We could distinguish the dawn of that morning. The wind was favourable, and we found ourselves in the South Sea*. As soon as we were thwart of Cape Vit'tcry, at the west end of Magellan's, Strait, we bore to the north, being sensible that the cold diminished daily, and we began to find it necessary to change ourcloaths. In 51 degrees latitude, 299 degrees longitude, we found the variation of the nee- * It appears that they nehher passed through the Strait Le Mair, nor any other, but surrounded the lauds. Vol. III. 3 C die
Z86 MONSIEUR FREZIER, 1708. die, no more than 15 degrees. January 22, we cattie W>J to an anchor in the Bay of Conception , on the coast of Chili. 444 4 ** 44444444444 * 4*44 ARTICLE Y. MONSIEUR FREZIER, to MAGELLANIC A. This excellent journal, one of the best we have, no navigator should want. It was printed at Faris, 1716, 1732, (in quarto, with plates,) and has been often translated. The ingenious Author was still living in the year 1756 at Bresi, where he is director-general of the fortifications in Brittany. His observations on the aspect and situations of the coasts, the variations of the needle, his corrections of the marine charts, his observations on the longitudes and latitudes, the nature and setting of the currents, all conspire to render his book highly useful to those who propose to double Cape llorn. These remarks, as Frezier observes in his Freface, are the things that render a sea journal truly useful j and it would be a good thing if, at the end of any general collection of voyages, particular tables of each route were drawn up, divided into columns, containing the day of the month, the latitude, lorn gitude, winds, the ship's way, the currents, anchoring?, variation of the needle, &c. together with a larger column, in which should be inserted the lying of the coasts, their aspects, and other nautical observations, which could not be comprehended in the others. This would render the whole of great- • er use to navigators than any method hitherto practised. As Frezier 's book is large, we here only extract from it his course going out, and returning by Cape Horn , from
to MAGELLANIC A, &c. from the Englijh edition, printed at London, 1717, •quarto. Though the language is far from being good, yet the version is faithful enough, HE structure of the universe, which is naturally Jl the object of our admiration, has ever also bten the subject of my curiosity : From my very infancy I took the greatest pleasure in all such things as could advance me in the knowledge of it: Globes, charts, and books of travels were my singular delight: I was scarce capable of observing things by myself, when I undertook a journey into Italy: The pretence of studying afterwards served me to travel through some partof* but being at length fixed, by the employment I have had the honour to obtain in the king's service, I thought there was no more expectation of indulging my inclination to travel, when his Majesty was pleased to permit me to lay hold of the opportunity that then offered, of seeing Chili and Peru. I embarked at St. Malo , in the quality of an officer, aboard a ship of 36 guns, 350 tons burden, and 135 men, called the St. Joseph , commanded by the Sieur Duchene Battas , a man commendable for his experience and knowledge in marine affairs, and for much understanding and activity in trade, which was very suitable to our design. On Monday November 23, iyu, we set sail from 171 s • the port of St, Malo , in company with the Mary , a w "- small vessel, of 1 20 tons burden, commanded by the Sieur du J ar dais Daniel , who was to serve for our Store- lliip. We went to lie fora fair wind near Cape Frehel, under the canon of the castle de la Latte , in the bay dt ia Frenaye, where we anchored the fame day ; but we waited in vain for near two months. The tediousness of so long a stay, the sharpness of the winter, then well advanced, the wind, the cold, and the rain, which I must be exposed to every other four hours, during the watches we kept alternatively day and night without interruption, according to the custom
z88 MONSIEUR FREZIER, 1711. custom of the sea-, and the inconveniency of a merchant- ship, in which a man scarce knew where to bestow himself, began to make me sensible of the hardships of a sailor's life, and how opposite it was to that quiet and retirednefs which are requisite for study and meditation, my greatest delights ashore, in short, I soon saw the utmost of misfortunes in a shipwreck which happened before our eyes. Here follows an account of it. It is first to be observed, that most of the ships that fail from the port of St. Mala , come to an anchor in the road of Frenaye , which is but four leagues from it to the westward, either to wait for a fair wind, or to gather their crews, which do not go aboard till the last minute. On the 9th of December there were five ships, the Count de Girardin , the Michael-Andrew* the Hunter , the Mary , and we ; when the Chevalier de la V --, who commanded the Great Britain , a privateer of 36 guns, came at six in the evening, and dropped his anchor near us but the buoy-rope, which through neglect was still fast aboard, having hindered it from taking hold, the ebb carried the ship near to a shoal that is at the foot of the port de la Latte, before they could drop another: That fame held them during the ebb, within a pistol shot from the rock ; but upon the return of the flood, the violence of the current soon cast them upon that shoal. The captain perceiving himself in that inevitable danger, fired several guns to desire assistance of the other ships in the road. Every one sent men to his assistance with all possible expedition, to bring him off; but it proved in vain, the S. E. wind rising, and driving out so violently to sea with the tide, that no boat could come up to the ship ; and the boat belonging to the Count de Girardin was drove so far out of the bay, that it could not return aboard its own ship that night; that of the Hunter was cast away, and had it not been for ours, the men had ben lost. At last, about midnight, the ship struck, and was staved in so short a time, that the crew
to MAGELLAN I CA, &c. 389 crew was laved with much difficulty, at the foot of the 1711 castle; only three men being drowned, among whom was an officer. The next morning we still saw the dismal hull of the ship lying on its side, beaten by the waves, which in twenty-four hours drove it all away in shivers. It is easy to imagine, what dismal reflections all men made upon that fatal spectacle ; especially myself, who was making my first essay of navigation in a voyage of two years at the least. We had lain there twenty-feven days in almost continual foul weather, the wind not permitting 11s to put out to sea, when orders were brought us from our owners to return to St. Malo, for fear of being surprised by some English vessels, which were to attack us there, of which they had received advice. Accordingly we returned thither on Sunday the 20th of December, and continued there till the 6th of January of the ensuing year 1712. That day, the wind coming about to the East, we sailed the second time from the road of Ranee ; but no sooner were we out of the mouth of the road, than we were obliged to come to an anchor, for fear of running during the night, upon the rocks, near which ships must pass to go into the channel. The wind was at N. N. E. and a rolling sea made us pitch so violently, that the cable snapped as soon as the anchor had taken hold. Thus were we obliged to go and anchor again at the mouth of the Bay de la Frernye , where we had an ill night. The next morning we failed, to look for our anchor, with the Mary , to which the like accident had befallen ; and she found hers, but ours was lost, because the buoy was flipped away. Whilst we were looking for it, a calm came upon us, and then we anchored a third time, a league and a half from the castle de la Latte , to wait till the wind, which shifted every moment, would fix at some point. At break of day we would have failed out to sea, but
Z9" MONSIEUR FRE'ZIER, ^"■but our cable appearing to have been gnawed within thirty foot of the anchor, it was thought fit to cut it, and fetch another at the town, and make good the anchor we had lost ; and therefore we drew near, making * waft with our colours. We made a signal, by firing a gun, that we wanted assistance -, and then returned to anchor a fourth time since this second coming out, under the castle de la Latte. Immediately two officers were sent away to fetch what we wanted ; which they did the next morning. We lay there eight days longer, waiting for an east wind, nothing worth netting befalling us. That time we spent in stowing the ship, which being too heavy upwards, could not carry much fail, as we had found by experience the day we came out the second time. At length, after having suffered much by the weather, which was foul and contrary, the wind came to E. by S. We immediately sailed to pass thro' the great channel between Rochedouvre and Guernsey , and by that means to get into the middle of the English Channel, to avoid the enemy's privateers, who used to infest the coast of Bretagne. We passed through successfully during the night, having, about ten, had a sight of Rochedouvre about a league to the §, W. of us. Some hours after, we discovered, by the moon light, a Aip which observed us narrowly. We immediately put up our fights, and made ready to engage, being persuaded that it was a privateer; but he durst not attack us, and fell astern, so that before day we had lost sight of him. The three days following we saw several others, of whom we got clear without sighting, by our good working. The east wind, which blew very fresh, at length carried us out of the most dangerous parts, and set us out of the channel. In the latitude of 40 degrees we had a gust of wind astern, from the North and N. N. E. which would scarce permit us to carry our mizzen reefed.
to MAGELLANIC A, Lcc. 391 reefed. The Mary not being able to keep up with us* 1711. we were obliged to drive without any fail; and in that V '' V ' J posture we ran near three leagues an hour. During that time, we discovered a small strip, which we judged to be a Portuguese from the Istand of Madeira ; but the sea ran too high, and we had too much business of our own, to go about to take prizes. However, that wind did us no other harm, than breaking down our larboard gallery, but, on the contrary, carried us to make much way. No sooner were we come into the latitude of 32 degrees, than we found a delightful sea, and trade-winds from the N. and N. E. which, without disturbing the sea, drove us along with their agreeable freshness, and caused us to ride much way with great ease. After a stormy dismal season, we enjoyed the pleasure of a fine climate, and of fair serene days, when we discovered land, towards the evsning, bearing S. E. and by E. about 15 leagues distant. It was a fresh satisfaction to us, to know we were near the Istand of Palma ; and more particularly to me, who, by my reckoning, found myself at that distance exactly 5 not that I ought to ascribe that exactness to my own skill, it being the effect of chance and of the calculation of the two first lieutenants, who took care to keep the account by the log; but because the rest, who knew I had never learnt navigation, nor been at sea, could not be persuaded, that, with a little help of the mathematics, a man can do the same that those of the profession do mechanically, without being able to give any geometrical reason for the meanest of their performances. It is true, that four or five observations of the fun's meridian altitude, set us very right; ever since our coming out, we found ourselves, for the most part, less advanced than our reckoning. I was of opinion, that the said crrour was occasioned by the division of the log-line, to which our navigators use to allow only 41 feet and 8 inches from knot to knot, for the third part
S9 z MONSIEUR FREZIER, J7ii.part of a league, making the sea-league to contain 15,000 French feet; wherein they are grossly mistaken, if a degree contains 57,060 toises, or fathoms, and the sea-league 2853 of those of the Chatalet at Paris , as the gentlemen of the academy measured it, by the King's order, in the year 1672 ; for, according to that calculation, the league containing 17,118 feet, the log-line ought to have, between every knot, to answer the half-minute glass, 47 feet, 6 inches, and 7 tenths. According to this principle, the knots being too lhort, I did not wonder that we made less way than appeared by our reckoning ; we could not but make one ninth and T-fi parts, that is, about one tenth less. I was confirmed in this opinion on the 31st of January, when, having run about 100 leagues since the last observation, I found eight leagues and one third too much in the reckoning, and others found more; but in the process of the voyage, I was sensible of the uncertainty of the log, which experience and good sense are to correct, according to the manner of casting it, and the inequality of the wind, which rarely continues in the same degree of force during the interval of two hours that the log is not cast. The setting of currents unknown, is still another cause of uncertainty ; so that it often happened, that the log-table answered exactly with the latitude observed; and at other times it fell our, that instead of retrenching, they were fain to add to it. There were some also, who relying on their reckoning, questioned whether it was really land that had been seen on the Wednesday evening; when on Thursday, the 4th of February, we again discovered land at E. and by S. which was not questioned to be the Istand Hierro , or Ferro, by the latitude observed, and our run from the Island of Palma , which was very exact with the distance between those two islands. Being sure of the place we were in, we stood for the islands of Cape Verde , with a gentle gale at N. E. and N. N. E. which in three days carried us to the Tropick, where
to MAGELLANICA, d'f. 393 where the calms began to make us sensible of extreme *7 ir * heats. They lasted but three days, being now and then mitigated by a little freshness from the west to the south. In those fine climates we began to fee flying-fifhes, ,which arc as big as large pilchards, or herrings ; their wings are nothing but long fins; they serve them to fly no longer than they are wet. We often took some of them that fell into the (hip, or on the chains; they are delicious and well-tasted. The enemies of these fishes are the doradoes, or gilt-heads, who continually pursue them, and with such a bait they are easily taken. They are so very greedy, that if a counterfeit flying-fish be made with linen, or any such thing, they suffer themselves to be deceived, though they bite at no other bait. By that means we took the first I ever saw, and I could never have done admiring their beauty. On their scales appears the brightest lustre of gold, intermixed with shade wings of azure, green and purple, than which nothing more beautiful can be imagined. The taste of their fiesta is not answerable to that beauty, though it is good enough, but somewhat dry. My inclination to painting caused me to take notice, under the tropick, of some clouds beautifully green at fun-setting; 1 had never seen any thing like it in Europe, nor have I since seen any of so sprightly a delicate colour. In 21 degrees, 21 minutes latitude, and 21 degrees, 39 minutes longitude, west from the meridian of Paris, we found the sea very white, for the space of five or six leagues-, and, casting the lead, found no bottom at 40 fathoms ; after which, the sea recovering its usual colour, we supposed we had passed over some shallow place, which is not set down in the charts. For some days we had a little fresh air at N. W. which is not usual in those parts; after which, the north and N. N. E. gales brought us into the latitude of 17 Vol. III. 3 D degrees,
39.4 MONSIEUR FREZIER, 17* t-degrees, 40 minutes, where we lay by a night, knew-' ing we were near the islands of Cape Verde. Accordingly, the next day, being the 15th of February, we discovered a very high land covered with a fog, and the next day distinctly perceived that it was the island of St. Nicholas,, and afterwards the island of St. Lucy, which bore S. 8. W. from us. We stood about to have sea-room at night, and having run eight leagues N. E. and by E. we thought we saw rocks by the brightness of the sea, which in those parts glitters very much; that is, it is, during the night, very light and sparkling, in case the surface be never so little agitated by fishes, or by ships - so that the (hip's way looks like fire. 1 could scarce have believed this effect of the motion of the sea water, if I had not seen it, though 1 had before read the accounts given of it by physicians, particularly Rohault , who also adds reasons why it glitters more in hot countries than elsewhere. However that is, we stood about, if I mistake not, on account of a shoal of fish, and ran 14 leagues W. and by N. and about three in the afternoon, we perceived, through the mist, the island of St. Lucy , to the southward* about a league and a half distant. An hour after, we discovered that of St. Vincent , which we only knew by guess, as well as the other islands before-mentioned, because none of our men had seen them on the north side. Then it was that f became sensible of the usefulness of the draughts of lands in the latitudes where they are generally looked for; however, this may be known by a low land stretching out at the foot of the high mountains towards the N. W. next the island of St. Anthony, and by & little sugar-loaf rock, which appears at the mouth of the bay, west of the island, about two cables length from the shore. Upon the certainty of these marks, we, at six of the clock, entered the channel between the tsvo islands of St. Vincent and St. Anthony , with a fresh gale at N.N.W.
to MAGELL ANICA, &c. 395 N. N. W. and N. and ran along within muslcet-sliot ofr?! 1. the little rock, to gain upon the wind; it is very clean, w "' At that distance we found 2 7 fathoms water: They lay there is a passage next the land, and that it has 17 or 20 fathoms water, in turning that little island, ships are exposed to great squalls or gusts of wind, which come down from the mountain at N- E. Some ships of Monsieur du Gay's squadron lost their round-tops there, and among them the Magnanimous, which was obliged to put in. At length we anchored in the creek, in ten fathoms water, the bottom a fine sand and gravel, S. and by E. somewhat easterly of the little island, and east of the starboard point going in. At the fame time the Mary came to an anchor S. E. from us, in eight fathoms water, the bottom an ouzy sand. We reached the island of St. F'incent very exactly with our account, because in those fine climates, where the weather is always serene, we had an observation almost every day, which differed from our reckoning five or six minutes south every day, even when there was a calm ; whence I conjectured, that the currents carried us so far: on the contrary, from 19 degrees latitude, the computation was before us. This errour might also proceed from the log-line, as has been said before, because in a day of 45 leagues run, abating four, I still found above one for the common current, v/hich drove us somewhat to the south. The next day, being the 16th of February, we thought to gQ and water in a rivulet, which runs a great part of the year into a little creek, the farthest northward in the bay; but we found only a dry channel. Being surprized at the disappointment of so necessary a recruit, a detachment of men and officers was sent to seek some in the island, and whether there was any dwelling, whence some cattle and fruit might be had. They only found some fast-marsties, and no other habitation but a few cottages made of the boughs of trees, fitter-for beasts than men, the doors being so low ? 3 D 2 that
Zy6 MONSIEUR FREZIER, 1711.that there is no going into them but upon all fouri All the household-goods were some leather-budgets and tortoise-shells, which served for seats, and for vessels to hold water. The blacks, who are the inhabitants, had abandoned them, for fear of being carried away and fold, though by our colours they should have' taken us for English. Two or three of them were seen stark-naked they' hid themselves in the woods as soon as they saw our men, and would never come near, though they called to them in a friendly manner. At length, after long search, at the south point of, the bay, they found a little gut of water, which ran down from the crags to the sea: They dug to make it run the better, and gather water enough to lade it up. Thus we made our provision in two days, though with trouble enough to get it aboard, because the sea is very rough there. This perfectly fresh water was none? of the belt -, but in seven or eight days stunk so much, that it was a great punishment to be obliged to drink it. "Whilst some watered, others wooded, 200 paces from the watering-place. It was a sort of tamarind, which was easy enough to fell, and near the shore. We had put up English colours, with the pendant at the main-mast, and had fired a gun by way of signal of friendship, to induce the inhabitants of the island of St. Anthony , which is but two leagues from thence, to come to us; but whether they mistrusted the contrivance, or that the fog obstructed their perceiving of us distinctly, they came not. We only saw L fire, which seemed to answer that made by our wa- terers, in the night, on the fbore. Howevef, the St. Clement of St. Malo, with its pink, having anchored at the fame place, was visited by the inhabitants of St. AEthom , who, for their money, brought them beeves, goats, figs, bananas, lemons, and very sweet wine. They say there may be about 2000 persons of both sexes, and of all colours and conditions, in the island; and that, above the anchoring-place, there is a little /
•yo MAGELLANIC A, <&c. 397 fort, with four pieces of cannon, in which there is a 1711. Portuguese governour. As for us, we had no other refreshment than what we got by 6tiring; whereof there is great plenty in the bay of St. Vincent , though there is only one creek lying between two little points towards the E. S. E. where the sean can be used, because in other places the shore is rocky ; but amends may be made with the hook, for there is an infinite number of fish, as mullets, rock-fish, manchorans, pilchards, grunters, white-tooth long-beaks, and a fort which have a rat's tail, and round spots all over them. One of those we took, was six feet long, and is very like the petimbu- aba of Bras/ , mentioned in Margrave , p. 148. There are also sometimes taken bourses, or purses, a most beautiful fort of fish, described in the voyage of Monsieur de Gennes , by the Sieur Froger. In the tortoise season, there are prodigious numbers of them, as appears by the infinite quantity of their shells and skeletons that he along the shore. The inhabitants of the island of St. Anthony come every year to take to take and dry them, trading with, and feeding on them. In short, there are even great numbers of whales. We could have wished to have found some game to refresh us after our hard fare at sea, but there is scarce any in that island; nor so much as a beast, except wild asies, and goats on the tops of the mountains, hard to be come at,; some few pintadoes, and no other birds. Nor had we better fortune as for fruit, the foil being so barren that it produces none ; only in the valleys there are little tufts of tamarind-trees, a few cotton and lemon trees: However, I there saw some curious plants, as the tithymalus arborescens , or branched spurge; the abrotanum mas , or the male southernwood, of a most sweet scent, and a beautiful green; a yellow flower, the stem whereof has no leaves; the palma Christ, or ricinus Americanus , by the Spaniards in Peru called pillerilla ; and they affirm, that the leaf of it, applied to the breasts of nurses, brings milk into them
39 s MONSIEUR FREZIER, i7ii.them, and, applied to their loins, draws it away ; th* v ' w feed of it is exactly like the Indian pine-apple kernel; in Paraguay they make oil of it; abundance of houfe- leek of several forts, some of which have thick round leaves like an hazel-nut; coloquintida-apples ; limonium maritimum , very thick; lavender without any scent; dog-grafs, &c. Near the little island very good ambergris is found, and the Portugnese have fold it to some French ships, and among the rest to the St. Clement. As no refrelhment was to be found in that island, we set fail to get some in that of St. Anthony., but the wind blew too fresh at N.-E. and the sea ran too high to fend boats; so that we set our course to get out of the channel that is formed by those two islands. In passing along, we perceived the anchoring-place towards the S. W. Soon after we discovered, farther on, land at a great distance, which we took for the island Fuego, or Fogo ; but the next morning, after having run about 45 leagues S. and by E. in the night, we spied a sire, and when it was full day a very high land, which bore from us N. E. and by E- about sive leagues distant, on the top whereof there appeared some smoke. 1'he situation of that land made us take it for the island Brava, but the smoke inclined us to fancy it was that of Fuego, or Fogo. If so, the islands of Cape Verde must be wrong laid down in Vankeulon's Sea-Atlas, which we followed. However, we still made'the best of a good fresh gale at N. E. which carried us within two degrees of the equinoctial, where we had two calm days, with some little air from.W. S. W. to south ; after which, a little gale at S. S. E. having carried us on into 40 minutes latitude, and 23 degrees 50 minutes longitude, from .the meridian of Paris, we tacked, for fear of failing in too near the coast of Brafil, where the currents set to the N. W. We stood S. E. and by E. and the next iav, being the yth of March, steering 8. and by E, cut
TO MAGELLANIC A, fcte Z99 cut the line with a small gale at W. S. W. at 355 de- 17 1 r - grees from Teneriff. W ' J The next day, when it was no longer doubted that we were to the southward of the line, the foolish ceremony of ducking at the line* practised by all nations, Was not omitted. The persons to be so served, are seized by the wrists* to ropes stretched fore and aft on the quarter-deck for the officers* and before the mast for the sailors; and after much mummery and monkey-tricks, they are let loose to be led one after another to the main-mast, where they are made to swear on a sea-chart, that they will do by others as is done by them, according to the laws and statutes of navigation ; then they pay to save being wetted, but always in vain, for the captains themselves are not quite spared. The dead calm, which afforded the men leisure to duck one another, exposed us for four days succeffively to exceffive heats, without advancing, during that time, above 20 leagues in Our course, by the help of some little drifting air but a little gale at S. E. and E. S. E. by degrees carried us far from that scorching climate, and into 16 degrees of south latitude, without any squalls or rain, the weather holding clear and se^ rene. The wind coming to N. E. and then to N. W, brought us some showers of rain, cloudy weather, and some hours calm, for three days, till we came into 23 degrees and a half latitude, and 36 of longitude. When we were between 21 and 22 degrees of south latitude, and 34 or 35 of longitude, we saw abundance of fowl, and believed we were not far from the island of the Ascension. We cast the lead without finding ground, and had no fight of it, nor of that of the Trinity, which, according to some charts drawn by hand, we should be near, in 25 degrees and a half of south latitude, where the wind varied to the southward with intervals of calm ; but at length, being forwarded by a small gale at 8. S. E. and E. we in three days arrived at the island of St, Katberine, on the coast of Brasil , exactly
4 oo MONSIEUR FREZIEK, 1711. exactly according to our account, whereof these are v '" vV the particulars. The nexi day after our departure from Si. Vincent , our account was somewhat before us; the next day* on the contrary, we outstripped it 5 but the 26th of February, after having taken an observation in 5 degrees, 54 minutes, we found ourselves 8 leagues farther to ti e southward than we imagined, though two days best) e we had found 9 degrees, 45 minutes, by observation. The mistake still continued on the fame side, with those marks of currents which are called channels of tides, till towards 9 degrees south of 5 or 6 minutes, according to the extent of the day's run^ without reckoning the correction of the log-line. From 9 to 13 degrees there was less than from 13 to 17 and the difference was the more considerable, because we drew near land, so that we found one day, we had failed 25 leagues, when the computation made but 16. It is plain, that these erroUrs were occasioned by the currents, which set us to the southward : Whether it be directly to the south, to the S. E. or to the 8. W. cannot be positively known; but the most reasonable conjecture, in my opinion, is, that they must,set to the S. W. or S. S. W. because they are so determined by the position of the coast of Brajil. This experience reduces to a small extent, the remark made by Voogt, who in his fVaggoner, printed in Vankeulen , fays, the current on the coast of Brqfil , from March till July, sets violently along the shore to the northward ; and from December till March, the south current ceases ; where, if it be true as to the north part of that coast, it is not regular for the south part from 1 o degrees of south latitude, a little out at sea. It may nevertheless be objected against my conjecture, that if the currents did set S. W. they would carry the ihips that come from the South Sea nearer to the coast of Brasil : but experience shews, that from Silald's islands, there is found an errour of 2 or 300 leagues
401 to MAGELLAN I CA, &c. leagues contrary to the draught co that coast, or the 1712. island of Fernando de Noronba ; therefore the currents cannot fee to the south-west. To this I answer, 1. That the currents which set along the coast of Brafil , coming to meet the new lands of Sibaldh Elands and 6 'taten Land, turn off to the eastward, as several ships have found by experience; after which, they sometimes fall into another channel of currents, which sets to the coast of Guinea. There needs no more than casting an eye on the charts of the coasts of Africa and of South America , to be sensible of the likelihood of this conjecture. 2. ihefe errours proceed from the charts, as shall be laid in its place, and particularly those of Pieter Goos , which our navigators make most use of. This errour of position is not always perceived upon making the coasts of Brafil coming from Europe, because ships are often carried thither by the currents, as I have just now observed ; and that not knowing whether their bent is to the east or to the west, they often do not correct the leagues, as we almost all of us did in our voyage, following therein the example of most of the Dutch so that it is not to be wondered that we found those charts good which they have made by their journals. Be that as it will, it is certain, that from the island of St. Vincent to that of St. Katharine , we ran above 60 leagues to the southward, beyond our computation; though we had an observation almost every day, and took our precautions upon our errour; and yet notwithstanding all that, we arrived at the island of St. Katherim the 31 st of March, exactly with our points on Pieter Goos's chart, about ten leagues more or less, one from another: where it may be inferred, that if we had given way to the westward, we had run far in upon the land, as has happened to most French ships bound for the South Sea. Tuesday, March the 30th, believing ourselves to be near land, we sounded about six in the evening, Vol. III. 3 E and
402 MONSIEUR FREZIER, - 1712. and found 90 fathoms water, the bottom sand, ou2e, w W and fnells ; two leagues and an half more to the westward, we had ten fathoms less, and passed the night, heaving the lead every two hours, the fame depth and bottom. At break of day we saw land, being six leagues west of our second sounding : We soon knew the island of ' Gall, by its shape and some little white spots, which are taken for ships at a distance, and by little rocks or islands that are near it and it then bore W. and by South from us, about eight or nine leagues distant. We heaved the lead, and found 55 fathoms water, the bottom fine sand, and ouzy. At length we had an observation, a league and an half from that island to south and by east, and about three leagues east from the north point of St. Katharine's island ; the latitude 27 degrees, 22 minutes south. Thus it appeared to- us. A league and an half farther west, we found 20 fathoms water, the bottom ouzy sand, more gray than before: We continued heaving the lead at equal distances, the depth of water decreasing regularly, to six fathoms, the bottom gray ouze, where we came to an anchor, between the island of St. Katharine and the continent, the island of Gall bearing north-east and by east, about three leagues distant, in a line with the two most northerly points of St. Katharine , and the north and by east point of the continent. The next day, being the first of April, the Captain sent our boat and that of the Mary, with armed crews, to find out a proper place to water at, and the dwellings of the Portuguese, to get some refreshment. The Sieur Lejlobec, second captain, went at the same time in the yawl, with three officers, of which number I was one, to discover whether there were no strips of the enemy at anchor in the creek of Arazatiba , which is on the continent, west of the south point of the island. At our first approach, we found a very convenient watering-
to MAG ELLA NIC A. 403 watering-place at a forsaken dwelling, a quarter of a 1712. league east-south-east from the ship. being assured of '-' w that comfort, we proceeded farther along a little point of land, where we found a house that had been abandoned some hours before, as we guessed by the hot ashes. It was very surprizing to us, by that means, to perceive the jealousy of the inhabitants, because we had made a signal as friends, which Captain Salvador had agreed on a year before, with the Sieurs Roche and Besard , Captains of the Joyeux and the Lystdore , who had anchored at Arazatibz, being a white pendant under an English one, at the main-mast; but we had erred in firing but one gun instead of two. Besides, they were otherwise frighted by the taking of Rio de Janeiro which Monsieur du Guay Frcuin had lately possessed himself of, and ransomed, to revenge the insolence of the Portuguese towards the French prisoners of war, and their commander Monsieur le Clerc. In short, as we were going to seek other dwellings that had people in them, we saw three men coming towards us in a piragua, being sent by the Governour or Captain of the island, to desire us not to land at the dwellings; that, having be?n discovered to be French , the women, in a fright, were already sled to the mountains ; that, if we would do them no harm, they would let us partake of the provisions and refreshments they had, as they had done to other French ships which put in there before. We received those messengers kindly, and sent them aboard our sisip in the boat belonging to the Mary, attended by ours, which we quitted to go and view toe anchoring at Arazatiha , as has been said. We first passed through a little streight, about 200 fathoms wide, formed by the island and the continent, where there is but two fathoms and an half water. Then we began to discover fine dwellings on both sides, to which we went not, because we had promised the messengers not to go. We sounded all the way we went, but never found water enough for a vessel of six gu as. We coasted along several sine creeks of the 3 E 2 jstand
4 o 4 M 0 NSIUER FREZIER, 1712-idand, till night coming upon us, we were obliged to put in to land. Chance led us in into a little creek, where we had the good fortune to find water, and a little fi!h we took very seasonably, to which a sharp appetite was the best sauce in the world. There we spent the night upon our guard against the tigers, with which all those woods.swarm, and whose fresh track we had newly seen on the sand. At break of day, we still advanced half a league farther, to discover whether any ship was at anchor at Arazatiba , and saw none. One of our officers, who had put in there two years before, with Monsieur de Chabert , shewed us a point of low land, where there are herds of wild bullocks ; but we were not well provided to attempt that sport, and yet We stood much in need of it, for there are none on the north part of the island ; so that it would be much more advantageous to put into the south part, if strips were safe there ; but when it blows hard at east, east- fouth-east, and south-east, there is danger of being cast away, as happened to the St. Clement and his pink, in 1712 : They there lost their boat, with 14 men, and were themselves at the very point of perishing, though' there was no wind, being only beaten by the dreadful surge of the sea. This road is in about 27 degrees, 50 minutes latitude, west of the south point of the istand of St. Katharine. To the eastward of the little flowery island, is a creek, in which there is very good water, and little green oysters, of a delicious taste. At our return, we fell into that little creek, and two others more northward, and went into an abandoned dwelling, where we loaded our yawl with sweet oranges, lemons, and large limes. Opposite to this, hear the continent, is a little island, behind which is a small port, where the Governourof the island generally keeps a bark for the use of the inhabitants; but for the most part it only serves to carry on the trade of dried fish, which they send to Lagoa and Rio de Janeiro. The Portuguese , who had seen us pass by with English colours at our yawl, without landing at their dwellings,
to MAGELLANIC A, &c. 405 lings, at our return, came to meet us in their piraguas, 1712. tq offer us refreshments. We accepted of their offers, and, to oblige them, gave them brandy, a liquor they are very fond of, though they generally drink nothing but water. At length, we got to our ship about midnight, where we found the Governour Emanucl Mansa, with some Portuguese, who had brought refreshments. After having treated him handsomely aboard, he was saluted by way of huzza. His kind reception so far reconciled the inhabitants, that every day they brought us piraguas full of fowls, tobacco, and fruit. Whilst we were making that little excursion in our yawl, the ship was washed and tallowed ; 18 pieces of cannon were put into the hold to make it lie more snug in the water, considering the rough parts we were to pass beyond the southern lands. We also brought it nearer to. the island of St. Katharine , for the more easy watering; and because the titles are very sensible, though not very regular, or little known, and the sea does not rife or fall above five or six feet, we moored east-north-east, and west-south-west, 200 fathoms from a little island, which bore from us south- fauth-east, the island of Gall bearing from us northeast, and by north, about four leagues distant, half- covered by the second ppint of the island of St. Katharine , which is the most northerly. After we had very commodiously made good wood and excellent water, we waited some days for the beeves, which the Portuguese had sent for to Lagoa, 12 leagues from the island : but on the 9th of April, perceiving they still demanded more time to bring them, we thought it not convenient to lose more time, because the season was already somewhat advanced, to turn Cape Horn, a place to be dreaded, for the contrary winds, and foul weather, there met with in winter; therefore, the next day, being Sunday, we put out to sea.-Before we proceed on our voyage, it-will be proper, in this place, to fay something of the island of St. Katharine. This island of St, Katharine stretches north and south, from
4©6 MONSIEUR FREZIER. 1 7 from 27 degrees, 22 minutes, to 27 degrees, 50 rm- w '" ; nutes. It is a continued grove of trees, which are all the year green : There are no places in it passable, besides what have been cleared about the dwellings; that is, 12 or 15 spots scattered about here and there along the shore, in the little creeks facing the continent. The inhabitants settled on them are Portuguese, some European fugitives, and a few blacks: There are also some Indians , who come voluntarily to serve them, or are taken in war. Though they pay not tribute to the King of Portugal, they are his subjects, and obey the governour or captain he appoints to command them, if there be occasion, against European enemies, and the Indians of Brajil ; with which last they arc almost continually at war; so that they dare not go under 30 or 40 men together, well armed, when they penetrate up the continent, which is no less embarrassed with forests than the island. That Captain commonly commands but three years, and is subordinate to the Governour of Lagoa, a small town 12 leagues distant from the island to the south-south-west. He had at that time 147 whites within his district, some Indians and free blacks, part whereof are dispersed along the shore of the continent. Their usual weapons are hunting-hang- ers, bows and arrows, and axes: They have but few firelocks, and seldom any powder 5 but they are sufficiently fortified by the woods, which an infinite quantity of brambles of several sorts render almost impenetrable ; so that having always a sure retreat, and but little houfehold-stuff to remove, they live easy,, without any fear of being robbed of their wealth. In short, they are in such want of all ccnveniencies for life, that none of those who brought us provisions would be paid in money, putting more value upon a bit of linen or woolen stuff to cover them, than on a piece of metal, which can neither maintain nor defend them against the weather, being satisfied with a shirt and breeches for all cloathing, the greatest beaux ad~ ding
-w M A G E L L A N I C A, &c. 407 tiing a coloured vest and a hat. Scarce any man has 1712. shoes or stockings, yet they must cover their legs when they go into the woodsthen the skin of a tiger's leg is a stocking ready made. Neither are they dainty in food nor apparel; a little maize, or Indian corn, some potatoes, fruit, fish, and game, being mostly monkeys, satisfies them. Those people, at first fight, appear wretched; but they are, in reality, happier than the Europeans ■ being unacquainted with the curiosities and superfluous conveniencies so much sought after in Europe, they are satisfied without thinking of them. They live in a tranquillity which is not disturbed by taxes, Or the inequality of conditions : The earth, of its own accord, furnishes them with all the things necessary for life ; wood and leaves, cotton, and the skins of beasts, to cover themselves and lie on : They covet not that magnificence of lodgings, household-stuff, and equipage, which only stir up ambition, and for some time cherish vanity, without making a man ever the more happy. What is still more remarkable, is, that they are sensible of their happiness, when they see us seek for plate with so much fatigue. The only thing they are to be pitied for, is, their living in ignorance ; They are Christians it is true, but how are they instructed in their religion, having only a chaplain of Lagoa t who comes to lay mass to them on the principal festivals of the year ? However, they pay tythe to the church, which is the only thing exacted from them. in other respects, they enjoy a good climate, and a very wholesome air : They seldom have any other distemper besides that they call Ma! de Eiche, which is a pain in the head, attended with a tenesmus, or continual desire of going to stool without doing any thing; and they have a very simple medicine for it, which they look upon as a specific, which is, to apply to the fundament a little lemon, or else a plaster of gun-powder dissolved in water. They have also many medicines of the simples of the country, to cure other distempers that may seize th<?m. Sajsafras t
408 MONSIEUR EREZIER, 1712 -Sajsafras, the wood so well known for its good scent, '-' w and for its virtue against venereal distempers, is so common there, that we used to cut it to burn. The guay- acum, which is also used for the same purposes, is not any scarcer. There is very fine maiden-hair, and many aromatic plants, known by the inhabitants for their uses. The fruit-trees are excellent in their several kinds: The orange-trees are at least as good as in China : There are abundance of lemon, citron, guayava ,• cabbage, and Banana trees ; sugar-canes, melons, water-melons, turnsoils, and the best potatoes in the world. There I first saw the shrub that bears the cotton ; and, having been long desirous to fee it, I drew one branch, to preserve the idea of it. The cotton tree, or shrub, which botanists call gof- sipium , or xilon arboreum, is a shrub which seldom rises above ten or twelve feet: its large leaves have five points, and are pretty like those os the great mapple, or the sycomore but the little ones, that is, those which are nearest the fruit, have only three points. Both of them are somewhat thick, and of a deep green. The flowers would be like those of the mallow called paste-rcse , if they were somewhat more open, and of the same colour. They are supported by a green cup, corfi posed of three triangular jagged leaves, which inclose them but very imperfectly: they are yellow at the too, and streaked with red below. The fiower or blossom is succeeded by a green T r u\t like'a rose-bud, which, when full ripe, grows ■ g as a little egg, and divides into three or four hs* each of them filled up with between eight an. w^ ' e feeds, almost as big as peas, which are wrappe*; n > n a filaminous or thready substance, known by the p ie of Cotton , which proceeds from all their surf ace, grr.v/s white, and causes those cells to open as it ripens, so that at last the tufts of it break loose, and drop of themselves. The seeds are then quite black, and full of an
to MAGELLANICA, &c. 409 ©ily substance of an indifferent good taste, said to be 1712. yery good against the bloody flux. w '" l This cotton-tree differs very much from that which they cultivate at Malta, and throughout the Levant , and which is only a little annual plant j that is, it must be sown and renewed every year, for which reason it is called Xilon herbaceum: Besides, its leaves are roundish, and notched, and much about the bigness of those of mallows. To part the seeds from the cotton, they have a little instrument consisting of two rollers, as thick as a finger, which, turning contrary ways, pinch the cotton, and draw it away by degrees. The feed, which is round and thick, cannot pass between the rollers, so that it is stripped, and drops down as soon as the cotton is passed through. They fay, those cotton-trees are of the Idler sort, because on the continent there are some taller and thicker than our oaks, which bear a leaf like the former. They bear the silk-cotton, which is very short j but it is a sort they call Houatte. Dampier describes another sort there is in Brafil, called Motnou. This is what he fays of it: " The " flower or bloflom is composed of little filaments, al- " most as fine as hairs, three or four inches long, and " of a dark red -, but the tops qf them are of an afh- " colour: At the bottom of the stem there are five **• leaves, narrow and stiff, six inches long." In the woods there are also mahault, or mangrove- trees, the bark whereof consisting of very long fibres, serves to make ropes of. There is a tree very singular for its figure, which has given it the name of the flambeaux, or prickly candle: Its leaves are actually made like a branch of four candles; that is, the bottom of it is a cross rounded at the angle?: they grow like those of the raquette, one out of another: they are from eight to fifteen feet long, and produce a fruit which much resembles a fig, or green walnut. There are abundance of them in Peru, being six-sided, a? Father du Tertre Yoi.IU. 3 F has
4 io ■ MONSIEUR FREZIER, 1712. has represented them in his History of th c Cariblee- W '' J Islands. The machineel-tree is somewhat more rare there : It is one of the molt venomous trees that arc known, producing an apple beautiful to the eye, which is poison. From its bark proceeds a tort of milk, whole venom seamen have often, experienced : If in cutting of wood to burn, they happen to light upon this, and that the said milk sties on their faces, or that they handle the wood, immediately. the part swells, and.pains them for several days. "When the machineels drop into the sea, and the ftihes eat them, their teeth turn yellow, and they become poisonous. The ststrery is plentiful in many little creeks of the. island, and of the continent, where there is conveniency for casting a net. We there took fishes from four to five feet long, very delicious, somewhat shaped like carps, whose scales were larger than a crown-piece. Some have them round, and they are called meros ; others have them square, and are called fakmeras in Portuguese., and firagueras by the Indians. There is a smaller sort called quiareo , which have a bone in the head exactly like a great bean ; not to mention an infinite number of mullets, carangues, machorans, rock-filh, grunters, gurnets, pilchards, Zee. We one day took there a fword-fisli, which is a very singular fort, having on its head a fiat bone full of points pn; both fides, which serves to defend it against the whales, as we once saw on the coast of Chili ; and it has another thing peculiar, which is, a human mouth and another human opening. ■* As the sea-horse is sufficiently known in Europe, it is needless to describe it here. Game is no less plentiful than the fishery; but the woods are of such diificult access, that it is almost impossible to pursue it in them, and to find it when killed. The most common birds are the parrots, very good to eat : they always sty by two and two, very near one another. A fort of pheasants, called giacotins , but not so delicious to the taste. Ouaras, a fort of fishers,
to MA GEL LAN I CA, L?c. 411 fishers, all red, of a beautiful colour : others smaller, 1712. of a most agreeable mixture of the liveliest colours, w '~' called saiquidas. There is also a very peculiar bird, that has a large beak, more beautiful than a tortoise- shell, and a feather instead of a tongue : It is the toucan, described by Froger, and by Father Feuilke , The common game of the inhabitants, is the monkey, on which they feed for the most part: But the best of all for snips that put in, is the hunting of beeves, whereof there are great numbers on the continent, near Arazattba, as has been said before. Seven leagues to the northward of the island of St. Katharine , there is a creek, where the Portugueje generally keep them, and whether the boat of the 5 /. Clement went for them. Near to it, is the port of Gua- rupa , which the fame boat discovered, sheltered from all winds. It is hard to be known, because, without, it only Toks like a great creek, at the end whereof is the little mouth of the harbour. We not knowing where to find beeves, and the Portuguese, who, as they laid, had lent for them to Lagoa , staying too long, we failed, as has been laid, on Sunday the 10th of April; but the wind would not permit us to get out, so that we were obliged to come to an anchor again, almost in the same place where we were at first. We succeeded no better the next day, making several trips between the island and the continent, still sounding, and found much the same water. We viewed, very near, a little creek on the starboard-sibe coming in, where there is good anchorage in five or fix fathoms water, under shelter from all winds, and a little river of good water, commodious for ships that anchor near the first little island, which is on the larboard coming in, in a sandy creek of the island of St. Katharine, called J sot aux Perroquets, or, the little Island of Parrots. In tacking, we discovered the great creek of P'cujouqua , into which a great river falls : The mouth of the creek seems narrow, and, on the south fide of. it, there are flat rocks. Not being able to get out or" 3 F 2 the
+i2 MONSIEUR FREZIER, 1712. the channel, we were obliged to come to an anchor W ' J south-west and by south of the island of Gall, about a league and an half distant, and west-north-west of the first point of the island of St. Katharine, at half a league distance. At length, on Tuesday the 12th, we got out, with a fresh gale at north, and north-north-east, which came about to south-west, and grew calm. The winds varied almost continually, till the latitude of 40 degrees, where the fresh north and north-east brought on such a thick fog, that we were obliged, even in the daytime, to fire guns every now and then, to keep the Mary near us. A calm, interrupted by a small gale at north-north-east and south-east succeeded, and the fog fell again in 43 degrees and an half. In this latitude, and that of Cape Blanco , being 46 degrees, we saw abundance of whales, and of new birds like pigeons, their plumage mixed white and black, very regularly; for which reason our sailors call them dammers , that is, chequers, or draught-boards ; and the Spaniards , pardelas. They have long beaks somewhat hooked, and in the middle of them two holes for nostrils; their tails spread, look likefurbelow-scarves of second mourning. Being always upon our guard against the currents, and the errours in the Dutch charts, which place Cape Blanco four degrees more to the westward than it really Is, as has been observed by all the ships that have put into St. Katharine, whence they have taken their point, We began to sound at 43 degrees, 30 minutes latitude, and, according to my computation, 52 degrees, zz minutes longitude, finding no bottom ; but in 46 degrees, 50 minutes latitude, and 58 degrees, 8 minutes longitude, we found 85 fathoms water, the bottom gray sand, mixed with reddish. I reckoned we were then 50 leagues from Cape Blanco, by a manufcript- chart of Grifon, master of navigation of St. Malo ; that is,-321 degrees, 52 minutes longitude, from the meridian of the island Ferro or Hierro ; or 323 degrees, - 3 3
to MAGELLANIC A, fcfr. 41 z 31 minutes, from that of c feneriff •, which agreed well 1712. enough with the soundings of some (hips which had U ' V ' J seen that cape. Whence it may be concluded, that, without regard to its exact longitude, it is wrong laid down with respect to that of St. Katharine. It has been effectually observed* that the desert coast, or of the Patagens, does not lie south-west and south-west by west, as we see it in the charts, but south-west and by south, and south-south-west, whifch has brought many (hips into danger. About 13 leagues to the south-west, beyond our first sounding, we found 75 fathoms Water ; four leagues farther on, still holding the (ame course, we had 70, then 66, the bottom still the same* as far as 49 degrees and a half latitude* where, in 75 fathoms, it was mixed with gravel, ouze, broken (hells, and little black and yellow stones. In 50 degrees, 20 minutes, the sand grows a little blackish, 60 and 65 fathoms water. Still standing south-west, within some small difference to the south or west, in order gradually to draw near the coast at 52 degrees, 30 minutes latitude, and 65 degrees, 45 minutes longitude, the sand was gray, mixed with little black and reddish stones, in 55 fathoms water. The night between the 5th and 6th of May, we lay by, for fear of ranging too near the land, and with good reason for the next morning we found the sea much changed, and about the evening we discovered a low-land very plain, and five or six hillocks like islands, which bore west-south-west, nine or ten leagues distant. Some took it for Cape Hirgins % on the credit of journals, which place it in 52 degrees, 30 minutes, though it be more to the northward in the charts; but that opinion did not answer our last observation of latitude. It is much more likely that it Was the Cape of the Holy Ghofi in Fierra del Fuego. We heaved the lead, and found 36 fathoms water, the bottom a black sand, mixed with little (tones of the same colour. The next day, being the 7th, we distinctly saw Tier- r" del FuegOy which we coasted along at four or five leagues
4 i4 MONSIEUR FREZIER, 1712. leagues distance. It is indifferent high, craggy in pre- ' iorJ cipices along the shore, and appears wooded in tufts : Over that first coast appear high mountains, almost ever covered with snow. The bearing of that coast of the- island Fuego , may be ascertained to north-west and by north, and south-east and by south, in respect of the world, from the Straits of Magellan to that of le Maire, correcting a half-rhomb, or 23 degrees of variation north-east* Having traced Tierra del Fuego till within five or fix . leagues of Strait le Maire, we layby, about four leagues out at sea, during the night, in order to pass it the next day. We had there 40 fathoms water, the bottom large clean sand, as in roads. That night we felt heavy blasts at south-west, by squalls, or gusts, which brought us snow and fleet from the mountains up the country : However, we fell off but little, a certain sign that the current was not violent, or that it set towards the wind, which is not very likely, by reason of the opposite bearing of the coast. Sunday the 8th of May, we sailed for the Strait of Le Maire , and easily knew it by three uniform hills, called the Three Brothers, contiguous to one another, in Tierra del Fuego, over which there appears an high sugar-loaf mountain covered with snow, lying further up the country. About a league to the east of these hills appears Cape Stt Vincent , being a very low land ; then a second little cape, called Cape St. James ; though I have reason to believe, that Cape St. Vincent is much more to the north ; and that the cape to which they have given that name is Cape St. James, grounding this my opinion on very ancient Spanijh manuscript-charts, perhaps taken from the discovery of the Nodales. When bearing N.N. W. and north from those little low capes, as we drew near, we discovered Strait Le Maire (which lay covered by Staten-land ) opening by little and little, till at length, being three quarters of a league cast from the first of them, all the opening
4*5 to MAGELLANIC A, &e. opening appears. This remark is necessary to make 1712. sure of the straight; because many ships, and lastly* the Incarnation and the Concord , thought to have gone through there, though they were to the eastward of * Staten-land , and they only saw it on the west side, being deceived by three hills like the Three Brothers , and some creeks like those of Tierra delFuego. No sooner were we got to the eastward of Cape St. Vincent , than we found a strong and rapid tide, as it were in a torrent, which made us pitch so violently, that the boltsprit-topsail dipped in the water; but having been informed of the course of the tide, which is six hours, or six and a half, we had taken the time that it might favour us, and ranged along the coast of Tierra , del Fuego , within a league and a quarter of it at farthest. We entered successfully with the flood, which runs rapidly to the southward, and divides itself into two currents; one of which takes along the Strait, which is but six or seven leagues wide ; and the other sets along Staten-land to the eastward. About the middle of the Strait is Port Maurice, 3 little creek, about half a league wide, at the bottom whereof, on the north side, is a little river, where very good water may be had, and easy wooding. Next to this, a quarter of a league more to the southward, is a bay about a quarter of a league wide, and much deeper, which some take for Port Good Success, and others for Valentine's bay, where there is con- veniency of wood and water, and even of a white and light wood, whereof top-masts might be made. It is likely, that the Port of Good Success ought to be the first creek going out, after having turned Cape Gonzales , or of Good Success. The name itself seems to decide the question that might be made, about the situation of Valentine's Bay and this; because it was really good success for the Nodales, who made the discovery, that they had passed Strait le Maire , and found beyond it a good bay, where they might anchor in safety. Be it as it will with the name, several ships, and, lastly,
4,6 MONSIEUR FREZIER, 1712. lastly, the Queen of Spain, commanded by Brunet, put in there on the 6 th of November 1712, and anchored at the mouth, in ten fathoms water, an ouzy bottom: He watered there in a little river on the starboard- side within; it looked a little reddish, but became clear and good. They also wooded there, and law some trees fit to make top-masts. The savages who came there did them no harm: They are quite naked, though in a very cold country. Some of them cover their privities with the skin of a bird, and others their backs with that of some beast, as Froger represents those of Magellan's Straits: They are almost as white as the Europeans. The St. John Baptist , commanded by the Sieur de ViU lemarin , of St. Malo, reports the same of those they saw in Strait le Maite % in May 17x3. Being becalmed in the middle of the Strait, and the tide having drove him very near the land, two piraguas of savages from 'Tierra del Fuego , came aboard: They shewed a strange affection for any red thing, and at the same time an extraordinary boldness; for the first of them that cams up, spying a red cap on the head of an officer, who came to receive him, snatched it off daringly, and put it on his arm ; another, seeing the red comb of a fowl, tore it off to carry away ; they would have taken away an officer's red breeches in the boat: In short, they appeared robust, better shaped than the Indians of Chili \ the women they had with them handsomer, and all of them great thieves. Their piraguas were made of the barks of trees, sewed together very artificially. They despised all that was offered them to eat, and shewed great dread of the cannon, near which they made grimaces like men in a fright; it is likely, because they had seen some Ihips fire, that put in there. In short, one of Brunet's officers told me, that he having shot a sea-gull with his piece, the savages all fell down in a fright. About noon, being to the eastward of Valentine's Bay, the tide turned against us, and we could not stem it with a good gale at south-west, which afterwards grew
to MAGELLANIC A. grew boisterous, with such dreadful squalls and gusts, that they brought the gunwale to, under two courses reefed; yet it was requillce to carry more bail to turn Cape St. Bartholomew , which is the southermost of Staten-Land. We stood fouth-south-east by the compass, and yet our course was scarce east and by south.' the violent stream of ebb carrying us away, as rb, along the south side of Staten-Land , and return;. h,u way into Strait le Maire. At length we turned that cape, and at the close of the night it bore norm -west from us, about two leagues distant; but the weather growing tempestuous, we were obliged to lie by, under a main-fail backed and reefed, in great fear for our lives, knowing we were so near land, and to the windward of it. Then the most undaunted took up serious thoughts ; for it may be said, we only expected the moment we should be drove on the coast, in a dark night, and dreadful weather, without any hope of being able to help ourselves. The charts threatened inevitable shipwreck; but, to our happiness, Staten- Land, on the south side, does not bear east-south-east, and west-north west, as laid down in the charts, but lies east and west, in respect to the globe, and inclines a little to the north, near Cape St. Bartholomew , as we had observed before night. In short, lying by, we must have fallen off east and by south, in respect of the globe, and accordingly should have inevitably perished. To this might be answered, that the same current, which carried us along the coast of Staten-Land, might hinder our driving so much to north-east, as we should otherwise have done, because it must run as the coast does, near the land, and keep us at the fame distance. This opinion would be probable, if other ships had not, better than we, observed the position we speak of. Besides, it is evident, that we drove very much to the east; for about nine in the morning, the weather clearing up a little, we saw no more land, though we could not be above two leagues south, or south-east, from it Vol. III. 3 G at 4>-7 1712.
4i* MONSIEUR FREZIER. J7!2. at most, if it extends 13 or 14 leagues from the Strait, as those, who have coasted it, assure us. Whilst we were beginning to cheer up and rejoice, for having escaped being wrecked, we were under much uneasiness for the Mary, which we had left, at the close of the night, to the leeward of us, and fallen off within about a league of the coast ; but our joy was complete, when we espied her again the next morning.' She had suffered by the foul weather; her whipstaff had been broke, and her beak-head shattered. A calm' succeeding, after that horrid tempest, we had the . opportunity of sending carpenters aboard her, to put her into a condition to endure the beating of the sea, of which (he had, till then, felt but a small trial. The wind afterwards coming from north-north-west to north-north-east, north about, a fresh gale, we, in 24 hours, recovered part of the way we had lost lying' by. From 43 degrees and an half, to 57, we had no easterly winds, and scarce any fair days, but changeable and foggy days, the winds still ranging from north to south, west about, blowing fresh, excepting from 46 degrees to 50, where we had two days of gentle' wind. This blast at north-north-east was the more agreeable to us, because we did not expect any from thence ; and it carried us from a place where we had been in great danger. That good wind started to south-east in a violent manner, and obliged us to ly by some hours ; but it fell a little, and we took the advantage of it for 24 hours, well enough satisfied to endure the vehement cold it brought, and the tolling of a dreadful sea, which still carried us on in our course. It soon came back to south, and south-south-west, so violent, that we Could scarce carry our two courses reefed. '■ 1 1 " May the 14th, being in 58 degrees, 5 minutes latitude, and 64 or 61 of longitude, we loft sight of the Mary. We fancied she had tacked to stand westward; we tacked an hour after, in quest of her, burin vain r We /aw her no more till we came to La Conception. The
to MAGELLANIC A, &c. 419 The i7 th, the wind being at south-west, we stood, 1712. during the night, south-east and by south, for fear of falling in upon Barnevelt's Islands, which some manu- script-charts place in 57 degrees latitude, because the fog, the high wind, and the rolling sea, would not have permitted us to recover it, if we had fallen to the leeward : 24 hours after, the wind came more to the southward, and we bore away N. W. We reckoned ourselves in 57 degrees and a half latitude, and 69 or 66 of longitude, when the wind blowing hard, and the weather being foggy, about half an hour after one in the morning, the starboard watch saw a meteor unknown to the oldest sailors a- board; being a light differing from that of the ancients, called Castor and Pollux, and from lightning; which lasted about half a minute, and gave some little heat. That Unusual appearance in the cold weather, and a high wind, scared most of the men, who shut their eyes ; and they speak of it only as a flash of lightning* the brightness whereof appeared even through the eyelids ; the others, who were more bold, affirmed they had seen a ball or globe of a bluish light, and very bright, about three feet diameter, which vanished a- mong the main-top-mast-stays. All the men looked upon it to presage a storm: I did not like that prophecy, the weather being bad enough to fear worse; for, besides that, it was cold, and the sea ran mountain-high: We had wind a-head, which Obliged us to tack every moment, without gaining any thing in longitude. However, the three next days did not prove worse : The 4th, we lay by some hours reefed ; but the wind, which had varied from west to south-south-west, being come about to north-west, the Weather grew mild, and cleared up a little. The 23d and 24th, we got out of 59 degrees, 58 minutes latitude, where we had stuck a long time. The 25th, we were obliged to ly by some hours, and the 26th were becalmed. I began then to flatter myself with the hopes, that 3 G a we
420 M 0 NSIUER FREZIER, '1712. we should soon be out of those dreadful part?., because we reckoned we were passed the longitude of Cape Horn nine or ten degrees, that is, near 200 leagues, when there came up such a violent wind at north-west and west-north-west, and such a dreadful sea, that we were obliged to strike our mizzen-yard and top-mast to the very utmost. Being disgusted and tired with such a long voyage, it grieved me to the heart, that I had exposed myself to such hardships, being not only sensible of the present evils, but in fear for what was to come, if, as had happened to several other ships, we should be obliged to return and winter in the river of Plate , dreadful for its bad anchorage, the gusts of wind, the sand-banks, and the shipwrecks some of our officers had been in. I compared the easy life of the most wretched persons ashore, with that of a man of some consideration aboard a ship in a storm; the sine weather we had in Europe about the 27 th of May, with those dark days, which were not above six hours long, and afforded us no more light than a fine moonshine-night ; the beauty of the fields adorned with flowers, with the horrour of the waves that swelled up like mountains ; the sweet repose a man enjoys on a green turf, with the agitation and perpetual shocks of so violent a rolling, that unless a man grasped something that was well made fast,- there was no standing, sitting, or lying; which had held us for near a month, without intermission : All this, added to the remembrance of the terrible night at Strait le Maire , did so dispirit me, that I was overcome with grief, and then bethought myself of the complaints of Europa , Horace, /. iii. Ode 27. b Sat. vi. /. 2. -- Meliusne fluclus Ire per longos suit, an recentes Carper e ft or es ? 0 rus ! quando ego te afpiciam ? quandoque licebit, Nunc veterum libris , nunc somno , et inertibus koris Diicere Jollicitee jucunda oblivia xitœ ? It
TO M A G E L L A N I C A, &c. 421 It was our good fortune that the storm lasted but 1712, 24 hours ; after which, a north-west wind coming up by the west, and then a south to east-south-east, a fresh gale, which is rare in those parts, we got into 51 degrees latitude, and 84 or 82 of longitude, according to our computation ; so that we could make use of the south-west and south-south-west winds, which are there most frequent. Three fair days gave us leisure to breathe after so much trouble. The last of them, being the ad of June, we saw, at our lar board-watch, at two o'clock in the morning, a light run from our mizzen- pendant to the main-stay, where it vanished in a moment. The next day, the wind, which had shifted about from south-east to north-east, by the south and west, •after having blown violently at east-north-east, quite flatted there to a calm, the sea running very high, and then for three days more took a different turn, from north to south by the east, sometimes a fresh gale, and sometimes a gentle blast, and ceased at south and by west, in about 45 degrees latitude, in a calm, the sea very rough. In fine, after having for two days bore up against a strong surge of the sea coming from the north, by the help of the east and south winds, we came into 40 degrees, 40 minutes latitude, where we were much surprised to see land 50 leagues sooner than we expected, according to the manuscript-chart of St. Ma- h y which we had found better than the Dutchy as far as Strait le Maire. In short, having found that Pieter Coos thrust back the coast of the Patagons 60 leagues too far westward, in respect to Brajil , we had laid it aside ; yet, according to his longitude, we here came upon the land very exactly with our ship. The manuscript-charts I have here spoken of, have been corrected on the fide of Cape BlancOy and of Strait k Mairey by the journals of the St. Malo ships, that have failed into the South Sea; all which agree well enough about the longitude of them both. I know not whether this general agreement may form a certain opinion,
422 MONSIEUR ERE21 ER, 1712. opinion, for there are visible currents all along the coast. From 32 to 35 degrees latitude, we advanced a little less than our computation : That might be occasioned by an errour in the log; but, on the other hand, from 37 to 41, we advanced more to the southward by six or seven leagues in 50 5 and three days after, 16 leagues and a half in a computation of 70, that is, about a quarter, afterwards diminilhing; so that, in about 49 degrees, go minutes, the observations agreed very well with the Computation to Strait le Maire , which I found in the longitude of 61 degrees, 35 minutes, answering to the 318 degrees* 25 minutes; from the island of Hierro, or Ferro, or 316 degrees; 40 minutes, from the meridian of Teneriff. From thence, I question whether the charts could be corrected with good reason, as to the longitude of Cape Horn and the coast of Chili ; for the strips that have ranged the fame* assure us* they found currents that drove them to the eastward, at the fame time that they reckoned they had gained ground to the westward. Hence proceeds that difference among the sea-charts, which allow 100 leagues from the Strait to Cape Horn ; whereas those that are manuscript, allow only 40 or 50. This is very certain, that it is but in 55 degrees, 50 minutes latitude, or 56 degrees at the utmost; though in all the printed sea-charts, it is laid down in 57 and a half, or 58 degrees. As to the distance between that cape and the coast of Chili, it is still less known, because few ships have ranged the coast of Terra del Fuego on that side. Prudence will not permit any to expose themselqes to it, because the winds generally come up from south-south-west to west, so strong, that they might force them on the coast. However, there is a channel by which they might escape into the Strait of Magellan. That channel was accidentally discovered on the 25th of May, 1713, by the tartane St. Barbe, as shall be said in another place. According to the astronomical observation of Fathef Feuillee , who places La Conception in 75 degrees, 32 minutes;
4-Z to MAGELLANIC A, &c. nutes, 30 seconds longitude, that is, 25 leagues more 1712. westerly than the manuscript corrected charts, fuppo- sing that of Strait le Maire , as I have mentioned it before, and 35 leagues farther east than those of Pie ter Coos , our errour was but of about 30 leagues. It is certain, as has been said, that the night we came out of that Strait, we fell off considerably to the eastward, not only because the next day we had no sight of land, but also because we found ourselves eight minutes more to the north, upon a computation of ten or twelve leagues. Two days after, in about 57 degrees, 26 minutes latitude, we, on the other hand, found ourselves 22 minutes more south, upon a run of 70 leagues. Afterwards, we were not sensible of the currents for a long time : for, after having been seven days without an observation, almost continually in foul weather, tacking, lying by, and running 80 greater leagues in longitude, we, in 59 degrees, 20 minutes, found no difference^ and scarce any, three days after, in 55 degrees, 40 minutes : but not having seen the sun in eight days, we found ourselves 27 minutes more to the southward than our computation. This was in 53 degrees, 6 minutes latitude, and 84, or 82 of longitude. According to this errour and the former, there seems to be reason to conjecture, that there are two formal currents, the one along the South Sea, and the other along the North Sea. This last must set from St. Katharine to Tierra del Fuego, south-south-west, and from the Strait south-east and east-south-east, being determined to that coast by the coast of the Patagevs , afterwards by the new land of Siia/d's Islands, and that of Tierra del Fuego and Siaten-Land. That in the South Sea, must pretty neir follow the bearing of the land, from Cape Pillars to Cape Horq, and from thence turn off east and east-north-east along Barneveli's Islands and Staten-Land , as experience has shewed us. It also follows, that there must be some little current drawn by that of the land's end, in the south part os Chili , which likewise is agreeable to experience ; for when we trade
424 MONSIEUR FREZIER* "7 12 - made land, we were still 20 minutes south of our com- putation. In fine, I do not pretend to determine the particular setting of the currents: They are not always of an e- qual force, and near land ; some particular cause may altef them, as is easy to comprehend. W hat I can affirm, is, that near Cape Horn they must set towards the north-east, for our Mary found herself upon the island of Diego Ramirez , not only when she reckoned herself 40 leagues from it, according to Pieter Goos, where it is thrust back 30 leagues to the westward farther than where the manuscript-charts place it; but even when she reckoned herself two degrees more to the south, though perhaps she was mistaken, and took the Barnevelt' s tor Diego Ramirez. Thus every ship which, coming from the east, designs to turn Cape Horn , is always to take one half more than he thinks he has occasion for, of the south and west, either in regard that the winds are always westerly, or to be provided against the currents that may set it back, as has actually happened to several ships, which have found themselves upon the land, when they thought they had weathered the cape, and were 40 or 50 leagues out at sea ; whence, doubtless, has proceeded the errour in the Dutch charts, which lay down too much distance by the one half between Strait le Maire and Cape Horn . Be that as it will, we were very fortunate in that the land was not covered with a fog, and the west wind strong ; for at break of day, as we were standing north by the compass, that is, north and by east, according to the globe, we were going to run upon a point, which bore from us north and by east, three or four leagues distant, which we took for that of because we had another to the east, which might be that of St. Marcellus. At length, we observed three or four little islands a-stern of us, bearing south south-east, which in all probability were those of the entrance of Chili, which the Spaniards call Farellcnes de Carelmafo , by
425 to MAGELLANIC A, drc. which we had passed within half cannon-shot in the 17 1 4 * night, and it was very dark. Being surprised to find l "' w ourselves ib near land, we immediately stood about with a fresh gale at west-south-west, with some sudden showers of rain and hail: Thus we by degrees stood out, because the coast runs north-north-east. In the evening we discovered another point at south-east and east, nine or ten leagues distant, and one at north-east and by north, by the compass, aboureight leagues off, which it is likvdy was that of La Galena , where the mouth of the river of Baldivia begins to form itself. I could have wished to have seen that port, which, by the help of nature, and the fortifications made there, is the b^st and strongest in all the coast of the South- Sea : But that being no commodious place for ships that want to supply themselves with provisions, because there is no wine, and but little corn, we only thought of holding on our course for La Conception. We sailed four ships together, on the 19th of February, with a fresh gale at south-west and fouth-south- west, which carried us into 39 degrees latitude, and 80 leagues out to sea, where we found the wind at north and north-west, blowing fresh, and the weather foggy, after which much wind. We not being so good sailors as our comrades, crowding fail to keep up with them, split our main-yard in the middle. The 9th of March, in 57 degrees latitude, and 74 degrees 30 minutes longitude, we made a signal ot distress, and they lay by for us. We immediately hoisted up a small top-fail, instead of the main-fail, to make the others lose as little time as possible. The next day the yard was mended and hoisted up in its place. The fame crowding fail to keep up with them, made us the next day lose a great stay-fail. Our comrades seeing us out of order on account of our main-fail, conspired to leave us; little regarding the Parole of honour they had given to convoy us to France , though before satisfied that we were not so Vol. Ill 3 H good
42 6 MONSIEUR FREZIER, i 7 J 4 - good sailors as they, and knowing that on that account '^ rJ we had waited for them above a month. In short, we were apprehensive of meeting with pirates, who were said to be on the coast of Braftl , where ships in their return generally put in, and among the rest of one of 300 men, that had been fitted out at Jamaica for the South Sea ; not to take notice here of some obligations the chief men among them owed Monsieur Pijson ; all these considerations did not prevail with them, whose original unworthiness got the upper hand. On the 12th of March they made the best of their way, and got clear of us, by help of the fog, so that by five in the evening we had lost sight of them. It availed us little to hang out lights at night ; they answered us not, and to as little purpose we fired ionic canon the next morning at break of day. We were not much concerned to lose the company of ships of St. Male , on which there is so little relying that it is become a proverb as such, even among the people of the same province; but we had reason to be concerned for having followed them in the most foolish navigation imaginable, which had brought us into 58 degrees 40 minutes latitude, when we might pass with all safety at least 40 leagues more northward, and have shortened our voyage by six days, without running so far into these hard climates, where much must be endured, and dangers unforeseen may be met with. In short, whilst we were taken up, looking out for them in the fog, we discovered, about three quarters of a league west from us, a Shoal of ice, which might be at least 20c feet high above the water, and above three cables long. It was at first fight taken for an unknown island, but the weather clearing up a little, it perfectly appeared to be ice, whose blewish colour in some parts looked like sinoak ; the small pieces of ice we immediately saw floating on both sides of the ship, left us no farther room to doubt. We were becalmed in a very rolling sea, and scarce having
to MAGELLANIC A, 6 c. 427 having a small gale at south-west, made us advance 2 1714- leagues north-east; that is, east-north-east, as to the globe before we spied at east and by north, about a league and a quarter from us, another float of ice, higher than the former, which looked like a coast four or five leagues long ; the end whereof we could not well fee, l>y reason of the fog. Then frighted, with good reason, at so unexpected a danger, we lamented the fair north-west winds we had lost, to follow the ridiculous navigation of the faithless St. Mala men. The wind luckily freshening at west, permitted us to stand to the northward, and in less than an hour we saw no more pieces of ice. Though those parts have been frequented for 14 years past, at all times of the year, very few ships have met with ice, so that it was not apprehended. Only th t Assumption, commanded by Paw, in 1708, saw a vast float, like a coast. Our comrade, who, lying near the wind, had got to east-north-east, had no view of those we saw, but they affirmed they had met with a large piece in 54 degrees and 3 quarters. This accident may be a warning to such as attempt to pass Cape Horn in winter, as we did in the St. Joseph, because the length of the nights, and the darkness of the days, do not afford opportunity of avoiding them easily. Perhaps the Autumn is the most dangerous season, because then the ice breaks, and separates by means of the little heat there has been in the summer; however, being extremely thick, it does not thaw till the next summer, for that height which appears above the water, is only the third part of the true thickness, the rest being below. If it be true, as many pretend, that the ice in the lea is only formed of the fresh water, which runs down from the land, it must be concluded that there is land towards the south pole; but it is not true that there are any more to the northward than 63 degrees of latitude for the extent of above 200 leagues, from 55 of longitude to 80; for that space has been run over 3 H 2 by
428 MONSIEUR FREZIER, 1714- by several stops, which the south-west and so u th - sou th- west winds have obliged to stand far to the southward, to double the end of the lands. Thus those southern lands, or Terra Aujlraiis generally laid down in the old charts, are mere chimeras, which have been justly left cut of the new charts. but though those false lands have been put out, Brewer's streights have been again put in, which is no less imaginary than Terra Auftralis ; for all the ships which have passed to the eastward of Staten-Land ., have found no other land to the eastward, either in sight of land, or out at Sea, which is the way that almost all the ships returning from the South-Sea pass, We ourselves, doubtless, passed through those parts. In fine, they have not yet corrected the errours in the lands that are known, which are very ill laid down both as to longitude and latitude. There we fee Cape Hern in 57 degrees and an half, and 58 degrees latitude, and above 20 leagues, and even 140 leagues distant from streight leMaire, though in reality it is only in 55 degrees 45 minutes, and 40 or 50 leagues at most from streight le Make. 1 fay nothing here of the longitude, which is not positively known, but which may be pretty near ascertained by that of La Conception , whereof we have spoken, according to the greatest conformity between the computations, at 310, or 311 degrees from the meridian of Teneriff\ instead of 303, or 304, as laid down in the charts, which is at least 6 degrees difference. Thence also proceeds the falsity of the laying down of the coast, 'from that Cape to Cape Pillars , which lie south-east by east, and northwest by west, instead of south-east and south, and north west by north, as they are laid down ; and near Cape Horn it has a little more of the west, as has been observed by those who have seen a great part of the coast, which most charts mark as unknown, w th points ; but at present, though we are not perfectly acquainted as to the particulars, we at least know the main bearing. All
to MAGELLANIC A.' 429 All these considerations have moved me to gather 1714* memoirs for drawing of the chart I here insert, in w '"' which may be seen two new discoveries. The one is a passage into Ticrra del Fuego , through which chance carried the Tartane St. Barbara , commanded by Mar- canil , out of the streights of Magellan into the South- Sea , on the 15th of May 1713. About six in the morning they sailed from Elizabeth Bay, steering south-west, and south-west by south j they took the common channel for that of the river Majsacre , and were standing to south-west on an island 'which they took for the Dauphin's , assisted by the currents which favoured them, and a good gale at northeast ; they ran along that island, and an hour after they had passed it, they found themselves in a large channel, where on the south-side they saw no other land, but a number of small islands among breakers. Then perceiving they had missed their way, they sought for anchorage, to gain time to send the boat to discover where they were. They found a little bay, where they anchored in 14 fathom water, the bottom gray sand and white gravel. The next day, being the 26th of May, they made ready at seven in the morning, and after making some trips to get out of the bay, which is open to the east- south-east they stood south-south and by west, and south-south-west, and at noon were got out from between the lands. They took an observation with very fair weather, and found 54 degrees 34 minutes latitude. This observation was confirmed by that > they took the next day, in sight of a small island, which bore east from them according to the globe ; they found §4 degrees 2 minutes. That little island w's to the southward of a great one, the south-east point whereof was called Black Cape , because it is of that colour. The little island here spoken of, is a rock shaped like a tower, of an extraordinary height; close by which there is a smaller, much of the same shape; by which it appears, that it would
430 MONSIEUR FREZlER. 1714. would be impossible to miss that channel, if it wferd sought after by its latitude, upon such singular landmarks. The ship's crew fay, that there is a good bottom, and that great ships may pass there without any danger, the fame being about two leagues broad. This strait is perhaps the fame as that of Jeloucbte , which Monsieur de Lisle has laid down in his last map of Chili ; but as the Englijh memoirs, which he has been pleased to shew me, seem to place it south of Cape Frowart , it may be supposed that they are two different straits. Perhaps also it is the same through which the squadron of Monsieur de Gennes passed out in the year 1696. If I have in this chart suppressed imaginary lands,; I have also added some real, in 51 degrees latitude,- which I have called new islands, because discovered since the year 1700, most of them by ships of St. Mala. I have laid them down according to the memoirs or oblervations of the Manrefas , and the St. Lewis, snips belonging to the India company, which saw them near at hand; and even the latter was watered there in a pool, which I have set down, near Port St. Lewis ; The water was somewhat ruddy and unsavory -, in other respects good for the sea. Both of them ran along several parts of them, but none coasted along so close as the St. John Baptist, commanded by Doublet of Havre , who endeavoured to pass into art opening he saw about the middle ; but having spied some low islands, almost level with the water, he thought fit to tack about. This range of islands is the same that monsieur Fcuquet of St. Malo discovered and to which he gave the name of Hnican ; the person that had set him out. The tracks I have traced will shew the bearing of those lands in regard to Strait le Maire , which the St. John Baptist was come out of, when he saw them, and with respect to Staten- Landt ,
To MAGELLANICA, &c. 431 Landt, which the other two had seen before they found 1714. them. I "' w The north part of those lands, which is here under the name of the coast of the Assumption, was discovered on the i6thof July 1708, by Poree of St. Ma/o, who gave it the name of the ship he commanded. It was looked upon as a new land, about ipo leagues east of the new istes I speak of; but I have made no difficulty to join it to the others, having convincing reasons for so doing, The first is, that the latitudes observed to the northward, and to the southward of those islands, and the bearing of the parts known, answer exactly to the same point of re-union on the east-side, without leaving any space between them. The second is, that there is no reason to judge that coast of the Assumption to the east of the isles of Am can for Monsieur le Gobien de St. Jean , who has been pleased to shew me an extract of his journal, judges it to lie south from the mouth of the river of Plate ; which being taken strictly, could not remove it above two or three degrees to the eastward, that is, about 25 or 30 leagues ; but the diversity of judgements is always a token of uncertainty. The first time they law that coast, as they came from the island of St. Katharine, they judged it to be in 329 degrees ; and the second Coming from the river of Plate, whither the . contrary winds had obliged him to go and anchor, after having attempted to pass Cape Horn, they judged it to be in 322 degrees, and, according to some, in 324, on Peter Goosh his charts, the errours whereof we have taken notice of at page 30 ; so that little regard is to be had to them. However, they reposing confidence in them, thought themselves very far from the continent; and reckoning they were too much to the eastward, ran also 300 leagues too far west in the SouthrSea ; so that they thought they had been running upon Guinea, when they made land at Tlilo ; but the third and molt convincing is, that we and our comrades must have rim over
43 2 MONSIUER FREZIER, i7i4.over that new land, according to the longitude in which it was laid down in the manuscript chart: and it is morally impossible that a , ship should have had no sight of it, being about 50 leagues in length east- south-east, and west-north-west. Thus there is no room to doubt, but that it was the north part of the new islands, whose western part, which is yet unknown, time will discover. These islands are certainly the fame which Sir Richard Hawkins discovered in 1593. Being to the eastward of the desart coast, in about 50 degrees, he was drove by a storm upon an unknown land ; he ran along that island about sixty leagues, and saw fires ; which made him conclude that it was inhabited. Hitherto those lands have been called Siba/d's islands, because it was believed, that the three which bear that name on the charts were so laid down at will, for want of better knowledge; but the ship th t Incarnation^ commanded by the Sieur Brignon of St. Mala , had a near view of them in fair weather, in 1711, coming out of Rio de Janeiro. They are, in short, three little islands, about half a league in length, lying in a triangle, as they are laid down in the charts. They passed by at three or four leagues distance, and they had no sight of land, though in very open weather, which proves, that they are at least seven or eight leagues from the new islands. In fine, I have set down in Reman numbers the variations of the needle observed in those parts, where its declination is very considerable to the north-east, for we have observed it to 27 degrees, being to the eastward of the new islands. After having got clear of the ice, we were favoured with a stiff gale at south-west and lbuth-south-west, at 35 degrees latitude, and 39 of longitude, where we had some calms; and then the east winds, which carried us as far as the Tropic of Capricorn, There we had four
to MAGELLANIC A, & c. 4-33 four days of calm, and pouring rain so heavy, thati 7 r 4 * the cataracts of heaven seemed to be opened. After that, a little wind came up ; and, on Sunday the 8 th of April, we had sight of the island of the Ascension, when, according to my reckoning, we were to see it exactly in the manuscript charts corrected, as I have said, having taken our departure from La Conception at 75 degrees 15 Minutes, which answer to the 303 degrees 5 minutes from the Meridian of Tenerifs, instead of 298, which is that of the Dutch charts. Thus I found that island in 32 degrees y minutes, which answer to the 346 degrees 15 minutes ; that is, three more to the westward than it is laid down. Those who had taken their departure from La Conception on the charts, found it 150 leagues more to the west. This errour in longitude is not the only one, it is also wronglaid down as to latitude, in 20 degrees; for it is in 20 degrees 25 minutes, as I observed at anchor near the land. This island, called, according to the Portugueze name, Ascenzao , to distinguish it from another Ajcenfi- cn island,' which is in about six degrees towards the coast of Guinea , is properly no other than a rock, a- bout a league and a half long, very easily to be known on the South and west sides, by a round body of stone like a tower, somewhat conical, and almost as high as the island. On the east it forms as it were two heads, which terminate theCape. It is still better to be known by three small islands, one of which is about half a league long, lying east and by north, according to the compass, from the great island of the Ascension. Those three small islands have caused some to believe, that this island and that of Trinidad were the fame, grounding their opinion on this, that some ships have sought for the other in its latitude, without finding it: But I also know, that ships have seen it at their return from the Eas Indies, and have also watered there in a pool. It is therefore without reason, that Edmund Halley has, in his great chart, suppressed the island of Vol. III. ' 3 I the
>34 MONSIEUR FREZIER, 1714. the Trinity, and given that name to the island of the Wv - / Ascension , which he lays down very well in its latitude of 20 degrees 25 minutes. We were glad to have met with this island, because we hoped to find water there, and by that means pursue our voyage without losing time, by putting in any-where. We therefore came to an anchor at west, five degrees north, or west. and by north, according to the globe, from that peek, about four cables length from the shore, in thirty fathoms water, the bottom sand and ouze. The boat was immediately lent to find shoaier water, and found it in 25 fathoms, large black land, north-north-west, of a small cleft island, more to the northward than we. The next day the boat was sent to look out for water, and found a curious fall, which would have supplied a whole squadron ; but the Ihore is so set with great stones, and the sea was so rough, that there was no going a Ihore without danger. Thus, during the whole morning, we could get but two casks of water, which stunk in. three or four days ; for which reason, doubt may be made, whether it comes from a spring. Thus our fine project miscarried, and we were obliged to resolve to put into Balm de Todos os Santos , where the appointed rendezvous was. Monday the 9th of April we made ready, and per- ceiy^d that there was near the island a current setting to the north-west, and north-north-west; for the calms .kept us there some days. . At length, the 20th of the same month, in 12 degrees 50 minutes latitude, we had sight of the coast of Brastl , which we found more remote from the i- sland of the Ascension than is laid down in the charts of Peter Goes, Robin , Vankenlen , and Loots , almost the one half in some of them, and a third in others ; for there are about nine degrees of longitude between the yitknd and the nearest land. From what I have said, it is easy to conclude .what an
435 to MAGELLANIC A, &c. an errour they must be in, who had taken their mea- 1714* sures by the charts ; for having taken their departure from Le Conceftion, 5 or 6 degrees too far to the west, and the coast of Erafil being advanced too far east by as many degrees, they found an errour of at least 200 leagues, according to which they must have penetrated into the land, as happened to the ships of our squadron, by their own confession. These errours have always been much the fame with our ships that have put into Brafil, or the island of Fernando de Lsoronha, in their return from the Somh-Sea. The ignorance of the theory, which prevails among our navigators, made them ascribe this difference in judgement, and the charts, to the currents, which they said did set east, without being undeceived by a fort of uniform errour, not only in their making the land of Brafil, but even that of France , after a navigation of 14 years, though they saw they found the lands of Brafil too far to the west; and that correcting their point on the charts, they found the land of Europe too far to the east, much about the fame quantity or distance, as they had made their reckoning. In this they at least discover their want of curiosity in not seeking to be better informed -, but they are still more excusable than their principle hydrographers, who ought to make their advantage of the observations which the gentlemen of the academy of sciences publish in their Connoijfance des Temps. But those things being too far above their reach, to understand and reduce them to the common calculation of the Dutch maps, which are commonly made use of, they are guilty of so much folly, as to despise them, as the productions of learned men who want experience. Thus in a manuscrip: instruction D. G. of St. Mah affirms, that the coast of Brafil is right laid down on those same ehacts, wherein, nevertheless, according to the observation taken at Olina u and Cayenne, there must be six degrees errours to the east. The next day, after we had made land, being Sunday in the morning, we saw a small vessel of two 3 I 2 masts,
436 MONSIEUR FRjEZIER, 1714-masts, which seemed to stand as we did S. W. After w ° having lain by a little, he stood about directly upon us, bearing up close to the wind, with only the main course. This extraordinary working, made us take' him tor a pirate; and the rather, becauie he seemed to be Englijh built: we put up our fights, and expected him with our arms in our hands. When he was within cannon-shot, we put up French colours, and he immediately aniwered with Portuguese , still lying as close upon the wind as he could. We could never know what to think of it; for when we came to Bahia de Todos os Santos , they assured us that no ship had sailed from thence in a long time. We held our course towards the land, on which many white spots appeared ; then stood off at night, and yet, when it was day, found ourselves within a league of the coast, the lea running high, the wind in gusts, and the rain pouring, which made us fear; because the coast is foul. That foul weather obliged us to stand out to sea, to expect some more favourable to n?ake the bay, and to the southward against the currents, which let us to the N. E. as is is observed in the Grand Flambeau de Mer , at this season of the year ; that is, from March till September, during which time the S. E. and Si S. E. winds also prevail; so that ships must keep to the southward, as is there discreetly adviied. At length, on the 26th of April, we discovered Praye de-Zumba- a place very easy to be known by an infinite number os white spots; which look like linen hung out to dry, as far as within two or three leagues of Cape St. Anthony, -The interval de Todos os Santos makes between that cape and the isle of Tapcrica , makes it look discontinued, when seen to the N. W. and the island, or the larboard coast very confusedly. Drawing near the land, Fort St. Anthony appears at the end of the cape, in the midst whereof is a tower, j ■■ ending
to MAGELLANIC A, &c. 437 ending at the top in a point, which looks like a pavi-1714. lion, w ~' Before that cape is a flat rock, on which there are four or five fathoms water at low ebb. It runs out a- bout a quarter of a league S. W. : The island of Papqrica, which forms the mouth on the larboard-side, is still fouler, havingbefore it a shoal, which stretches out above a league 8. E. and is seen to break very high upon the ebb ; so that strips must bear up due north along the middle of the channel to get in safe, and take heed of the tides, which are of three hours and three quarters. The mouth being two leagues and a half wide, ships may pass out of the point-blank reach of the cannon 6f the Forts of St. Anthony and St. Mary so that they are less to be apprehended in passing, than they are fit to obstruct a descent in the sandy creeks on the star- board-side. As we come in by degrees, we discover on the same side, on an eminence, one part of the city, which affords a pleasant prospect enoqgh, extending to the fnost northern cape, on which is the Fort of Our Lady of Monserrat. In that bay, at the foot of the city, is the port where the Portuguese ships come to an anchor, closed on the south and west side by the bank called Alberto, on which the water castle stands, which might be called a Pate , or horse-shoe, by reason of its roundness. In 1624, when the Dutch took the town oi San Salvador, Admiral Willekens possessed himself of that battery, which was then of ten pieces of cannon ; and in 1638, when Prince Maurice would take that town from the Portuguese, he also began by pofleiling himself of Fort Albert,- which obliged the Portuguese to cast great stones into the sea quite round it, to render the same inaccessible for ships, and even for boats. To enter this port, ships must bear up a little to the north, within ..the Fort of Montserrat, and when they bear
4ZZ MONSIEUR FREZIEU, 1714 bear east and west with the end of the town, they are w ' - ' at the mouth of the port, and past the bank Alberto. Entering the bay we discovered three strips, which were out of the common anchoring place, and by the signals perceived they were our comerades. In our passage we saluted the stag of the Holy Ghost, which answered us, and we proceeded to anchor 3. and by W, of the fort of Montserrat, and by west and by north of the castle, in twelve fathoms water, a bad bottom of sand and rock. We would have removed to another place ; but the governor, who had not permitted the French stops to put into the usual port, would not allow us to come near the land, where the bottom is better ; so that we there lost a cable and an anchor ten days after, wherein we were little beholden to him, no more than the Shepherd and the Fidel, or the Faithful, who had had the like mischance. This last was also one of those, whom the news of the peace put upon hastening to the South Sea, as to a treasure that is going to be stuit up; but they were going to the fag-end of that trade, which they have entirely ruined by overstocking the country with goods. Being come to an anchor, we saluted the city with seven guns, and were answered by the like number. Then we went about getting provisions, water, and wood, and furnishing a main-yard, and a mizen mast, ours being unfit for service. During that time, I employed myself in seeing the city, and the parts about it, as far as was in my power, notwithstanding the almost continual rains, intermixed at intervals with scorching heats. Those inconveniences, together with our short stay, would not permit me to take so exact a plan as I could have wished. However, I can give it as a very good idea, differing but little from the truth in what is essential. Besides, it would have been no advantage tome, if we had stayed long there ; some indiicreet persons of our squadron having made me known to the Portuguese officers for an engineer, it was not proper for me to expose myself to some affront in a place, where the memory
TO MAGELLANIC A, 439 jnory of the expedition to Rio de Janeiro, still fresh,1714. rendered our nation suspected, in short, they had doubled the guards every-where, and even erected new corps de garde, because there was already five French strips in the road, among which were two of force, the one 50, and the other of 70 guns. article VI. LA B A R B IN AIS, to Magellanica. T HE history of this voyage was printed in three vo 1715- lumes 12 mo, at Paris 1725, and 1728 ; and tho' V '' Y ' J it relates nothing very material, yet being so lately made, it represents the state of things, in that part of the globe, as they were not long ago. This has induced me to give this extract a place here, especially as it never appeared in English hitherto. " Having left the coast of France in the end of August 1714 in a vessel freighted for the coast of Chili, we got, in the beginning of the following year, sight of the defart land of Patagonia ; next we saw Terra del Fuego, and then Cape Virgins. Our pilot, thinking he now saw Strait le Maire, entered into a deep bay full of rocks, were we narrowly escaped perishing, a high contrary wind not permitting us to get back a- gain, but with the greatest difficulty and danger. Terra del Fuego is nothing but a number of very high islands, and peopled (according to common report) by savage nations. As the climate is exceedingly bad, and the lands destitute of every thing that can invite ships to stay on the coast, we know but little of the country. This very year, 1715, a French strip, after palling Strait le Maire, was 'overtaken by a storm and, during a whole night, they were driven as the wind directed. Next morning the Captain was agreeably surprised to find himself in a good port, formed by
$ 4 o LA BARBINAIS, to 17i 5.by a number of islands, whence he saw many others, some of which were high, and covered with trees, cithers low and sandy. Here he stayed several days, till the weather grew better, during which he sent his boat, and sounded all the passages near him. He might easily have rendered this discovery much more perfect, but the want of provisions, and, I believe, the little attention generally paid by merchantmen to any thing that does not relate to their commerce, made him content himself with the little he had seen. There are many different opinions concerning the inhabitants of these islands. Some Spanift navigators have represented them as giants; while the French, who have passed this way, speak of them only as being very hardy and robust, but of the ordinary stature,living like beasts in the caves of their mountains, and going almost naked in spite of the severity of the climate *. Staten-Landt was first discovered by the Dutch. It lies furthest south of any land we know, and remains desart from the rigour of the weather and its native sterility. We passedXa Metre's Strait happily, and in a very short time. It is about eight leagues in length, and 6 over, and here the currents are so very rapid, that without the assistance of the wind, it may be passed in two hours. Port Desire , situated in one of the islands of Terra del Fuego , offers a retreat to ships in distress, but t is seldom used. The night following we had another dreadful tempest, but having a good offing, we were not in great danger; yet the'Jury of the winds tore our fails to pieces, and the ship, during eight days, lay at the mercy of the waves. This storm carried us into 61 degrees 30 minutes south latitude : It was now the middle of summer, and yet, in my life, I never felt so rigorous a * We shall have occasion to examine this famous question more particularly afterwards, when we shall assemble all the different accounts hitherto given of the Patagoniam, and lay them ia one view before the reader, in our last book. cold.
to MAG ELLA NIC A. 44i cold. Our only comfort was, that, on Januaiy 17, we 1716. had but three hours of night, the storms appearing less terrible during the day, than when the sea is covered with darkness. At last, after a navigation of six months, during which we suffered exceedingly for want of water and provisions, we got to the island Saint Mary , ten leagues from the bay of Conception on the coast of Chili. Return from the South-Sea. ■-March 4, 171 6, we left the shore of Guara in Peru , holding our course west-north-west; we found the currents very strong in these seas. The fun going our course, we had him in our zenith, so that we could not observe the latitude. March 22, we thought ourselves by esteem in longitude 275 degrees; and here the heats were intolerable, nor was there a breath of wind till April 5, when we continued our course. An owl now perched on our masts, where he was taken, and put into a cage, in which he lived 15 days without eating. At the end of this time we let him go. We began to think that there must be some unknown istands near us, Whence this bird had been driven to sea. Yet, according to the charts, and the general opinion, the istes lie more to the east, and nearer the continent of America *. None,however, are seen in this course; only Mr .Bocage of Havre de Grace , on his passage from Peru to China, discovered, in longitude 280 degrees, latitude 4 minutes north, a great rock and very high, surrounded by a land bank, which he called Passion island , and this is the only land that has yet been seen beyond the line, in this course. * Here our author is mistaken, there being a vast number of islands dispersed in this vail ocean, several of which lie in the same latitudes, nearly, as he here points at, though his account in this place is very incorrect aud confused. Vol. III. Among
A 42 1716. LA BARBINAIS, to Among the different birds that flew round our flii)*, we took one, larger than a goose, whose wings betwixt the extremities measured seven feet. His beak was much turned in and pointed, armed with two rows of small, sharp teeth. We catch ed him with a hook baited with a piece of cloth, formed like a fish. May 27 , wesaw a fish, swimming with great velocity in pursuit of the dorados and bonitos. He had a long horn in his head, and hence we called him an unicorn. The oldest sailors on board had never seen any of this species. The day following we landed on the ille Guam , where 1 went with the Captain, to pay a visit to the Viceroy. We pasted through a wicket, which formed the portico of his palace, and within I saw a few muskets, seven or eight lances and Targets, a drum, and four colours. Forty soldiers were ranged in two lines, and their officer, having received us with all the gravity peculiar to his nation, he with much ceremony conducted us into the Viceroy's apartment. The obliging manner in which his Excellency received our visit, evidenced the pleasure he took in being supplied with bread and wine, delicacies to which he owned he had been quite a stranger of a long time.--Let not the word Palace surprise you. What in France is termed a Cottage goes by the name Palace here. The edifice I am now speaking of was covered with thatch, and palm-leaves. It consisted of three saloons or apartments, the two next the entry were destined for the Viceroy, and the third was reserved for a number of Indian girls, whom, according to his own account, he educated from a charitable motive. The principal settlements here are called, Jgana , Anigua, Asa, Rigues , Hugate , and Vmata. Before this last, is the road where ships come to an anchor. There are other villages among the mountains, where those Indians live, who either never submitted to the Spa- tiards , or have thrown off their yoke. The inhabitants are half naked, and universally infected
to M A G E L L A NIC A, 6 f . 443 fected with the leprosy, which seems to be here an epi- l l 16' demical distemper. Their hurts are formed of large trunks of trees, morticed into each other, and covered with palm-leaves. Their way of life is fordid and miserable to the last degree, and yet the Spaniards here ' are in a worse situation still, not being accustomed to live as the Indians do. Those last diminish every day,, there being scarcely 1500 now remaining of 15,000 found there at the conquest *. Some rice grows in these islands, but their general food is the cocoa. They bruise, and then mix it with a sort of wine which they draw from the same tree. They have many other kinds of fruits, some of which 1 never saw but in these islands. The Rima is as big as a melon, the pulp of which is white, and resembles bar- ley-meal. The Nica , IJsuni, and Dago they use instead of bread, heating them in the ashes before they are quite ripe. All these seas are full of islands quite to the Moluccas , and they have lately discovered those called Palaos , or Si. Andrew. I have got a short account of these, written by a Spanijh pilot, but very imperfect, saying nothing of their situation or inhabitants. Having staid some days in the isle of Guam , and got aboard prowsions from the Viceroy, consisting of fowls, bullocks, sheep and hogs, wkh a large quantity of vegetables, we continued our course to the'port o iEnwuy in China. After a long stay in this place, we came by the Cape of Good Hope to the coasts of Brazil ; and, March zo, we anchored in the road of Viveros in Gal - licia. * This diminutioa of the ancient inhabitants, wherever Europeans have fettled, prevails universally. The Indiar.s of South- America lessen every day. This may be owing to the cruelties and devastations of the Spaniards . But what cause shall we assign for the quick decrease of their numbers in North- America, where they have undergone none of the hardlhips inflicted ost those in the other hemisphere ? 3 K 3 ARTICLE
•444 JOHN CLIPPERTON, 4 ><f $$$$$$ 4,45,^4.^.^.^-^ ARTICLE VII. CLIPPERTON, to Magellan: ca. , 7 I 9- AT the time that the affairs of this nation, and Vw _t\ of all Europe, were extremely embaraffed, by* disputes between the late Emperor Charles VI. and his Catholic Majesty Philip V. of Spain, and the quadruple* alliance was negotiating, some merchants here, foreseeing that it could not be long beforp we broke with Spain, or Spain with us, resolved, about the beginning of the year 1718 , to ft out two ships for the Soutly Seas, in hopes that they might make as happy a voyage as the Duke and Dutchess had done, under the command of Captain W'codes Rogers • and, with this view, they provided two fine ships, in every respect fit for the voyage; the one called the Speedtvell, and the other the Success. But the war not breaking out so soon as was expected between the two crowns, it was judged requisite to have his Imperial Majesty's commission. When the scheme was settled and adjusted on this foot, it was thought very necessary to find out some gentleman who had served on board the royal navy, that might take upon him the command of the expedition, and be able to carry a proper authority over the Flemish soldiers, as well as English seamen, who were on board. This situation of things induced the gentlemen proprietors, on the warm ' recommendation of one of their own number, to make choice of Captain George Shelvocke , who had served as a lieutenant in the royal navy, had the character of being a good officer, and was certainly as accomplished a seaman as ever bore command. He was, besides, a man of quick parts, ready speech, and very winning address;
to MAGELLANIC A, &c. 445 address; which made him a very proper person for car- 1719. ryinginto execution this scheme, as it was then model- W ' J led. I he first instructions he received, were to proceed with the Speedwell-, then commanded by Captain 'Robert Mitchell, to 0fiend, there to wait for the Emperor's commissions, and to receive his Flemish officers and seaman on board the ship, together with as much wine and brandy, as was thought properfor the supply of both ships during so long a voyage, in so cold a climate as that of Cape Horn, and for their provision in the South Seas, which was bought in that country for the fake of cheapness. In was in the month of November 1718, that Captain Shehocke failed to Qflend , in order to execute this part of his commission. To shew the greater respect to the Imperial court, and, at the same time, to give this more the air of a German expedition, it was resolved to change the names of the ships; and therefore the biggest, of thirty-six guns, and 180 men, was called the Prince Eugene ; and the lesser of twenty-four guns, and 106 men, was named the Starenberg , after Count Starenberg, his imperial Majesty's prime minister. The complement of men Captain Shehocke was to take in, was sixty Flemings , under three officers; and when he had got them on board, together with his wine and brandy, he was to proceed directly for the Downs , where he was to meet his consort the Prince Eugene , that had been fitted and manned in the river. He was likewise instructed to make no sort of shew or parade there, by hoisting of colours, giving entertainments, inviting strangers aboard, or, in short, doing any 'thing that might give inquisitive people an opportunity of prying into the design of the voyage, or the strength of the ship. But Captain Shehocke, apprehending that he had a discretionary power, and, perhaps, finding it impossible to manage things in that country without a little shew, some firing of guns, and now and then a dinner, gave into it by degrees; and, at last, failed for the Downs with ninety Flemings, and six
44 ^ JOHN CLIPPERTON, 1719-six officers on board, where he found his consort, w '"' Prince Eugene , which had waited for him there some time. The accident of his staying so long, created the first uneasiness, his owners having some of them waited at Deal for several days, in expectation of him ; but disputes quickly grew high, when it was found, that the Flemish seamen, confiding in their numbers, and proud of being commanded by their own officers, behaved in such a manner, that the English knew not how to act with them ; and, as there was constantly a mixed command, these disputes were so often repeated, that at last the whole ship's crew was in a flame, and the owners saw, what they might easily have guested before, that to send out a mixt company, of Englishmen and Flemings , to cruise upon the Spaniards , was, in itself, a very ill-judged, and, in the event, a very impracticable thing; so that, after all the care and expence it had cost them, they found themselves obliged to lay aside all thoughts of proceeding under the Emperor's commission; to which they were the more easily induced, since they were no longer under a necessity of making use of it, the war being by this time begun between Great Britain and Spain. It was. therefore resolved, to procure' King George's commission, and to send back all the men and officers to Flanders, paying their charges, and allowing two months wages to the men. This resolution was no sooner taken, than it was put in execution : But, before we part with his Imperial Majesty's commission, it may not be amiss to take a copy of it. I have always had a great dislike to filling up books with public instruments and records; but this commission of the Emperor's is really a curiosity, in point both of stile and substance ; and, as I believe it is the only one of its kind that ever was procured by British subjects, I hope my readers will be very well satisfied with my inserting it, especially when I observe, that this commission was obtained before the East-India company was erected at Ostend 1 ; which shews how dangerous a thing is is, for the 1
to MAGELLANICA,> &c< 447 the subjects of the maritime powers to apply to 1719. foreign princes for commissions, since it opens the secrets of their trade, and puts such courts upon schemes they would not otherwise have thought of. But as to the commission : Thus it runs. A 'Translation of the Imperial Commission. " ^JHarles VI. by the Grace of God, Emperor of " the Romans, always August; King of Germany , " Cast He, Leon, Arragon, Naples, Sicily, Jerusalem , 1 ' Hungary, Bohemia, Dalmatia, Croatia, Navarre, " Granada, Toledo, Valentia, Gait da, the Balearic Is- " lands, Seville, Sardinia, Corduba, Corjica, Murcia , " Juan Algarve, Algier, Gibraltar, the Canary Islands, " also of th t East-Indies, the isiands and foreign lands of the western sea, &c. Archduke of Austria, Duke " of Burgundy, Brabant , Milan, Stiria, Corinthia, Car - u niola, Luxemberg, IVirtemburgh, the Upper and " Lower Silesia, Athens, and Neapatita Prince of " Suabia •, Marquis of the sacred Roman empire, Bar- " gau, and Moravia ; Earl of Habsburgh, Flanders , " Tyrol , Barcelona , &c. We make known and testify " to all the world, by the tenor of these presents, that " of our own motion, and from the fullness of our ** power, we have allowed and granted our imperial " permission, and free liberty, to the faithful, and " (of us) most deserving man George Sbelvocke, upon " a certain and experienced opinion of his honesty, " confirmed by a long series of good actions, to pre- " pare and fit out for war the ssiip called the Prince " Eugene, able to carry thirty-two guns, or there- " abouts, and to fail with her well-fitted and furnished " with arms, through any seas, far and wide, to fol- " low and pursue any such as are the enemies of " our most august house, but chiefly the enemies of " the Christian name, and to take and ieize their ships, to the end that our subjects, and our shores,, ' " may
J7 1 y- JOHN CLIPPERTON, " may be freed from the incursions of the Turks j " and be rendered safe from all enemies; or that our " enemies may be punished for their insolence, should " they offer any injury to our dominions Or subjects. " But we have not otherwise granted and allowed this " power and Cœfarcari permission to the aforesaid George " Shelvocke , than upon condition that he suffer the " before-named ship, with ail the effects wherewith she is laden, to be estimated and valued by our Ge~ " neral Archithalaffic College, commonly called The " Office of Admiralty of the Spanijh Flanders ; and that " he furnissi and fit out the said ship for war, by order " and appointment of the said office of admiralty ; and " also give the proper security, and take the usual *• oath required by the said office, or to whom- " soever the admiralty stiall authorise and impoweiq " by order of Our governour, or our plenipotentia- " ry in Flanders , viz. that he is the true commander " of the ship; and that he will exactly observe our " orders and rules relating to naval affairs and hostili- " ties ; and take care they be inviolably observed by " the seamen, and such as fail with him : Likewise, " that a list or catalogue be made, in which the names " and surnames of the persons who serve in the said ship, " with their birth, country, and habitation, be " clearly expressed, that the commerce of our subjects " own confederates shall not be disturbed, or any " ways hindered ; that stiips taken from the enemy '"• shall not be funk in the sea, nor the prisoners set on shore, or dispersed on islands, or distant and remote " countries, to hide and conceal the nature of their " booty : That no chests, boxes, or trunks, which " shall be found in the ship when taken, shall be o- " pen ed, or any part of the prize-goods taken away, " moved, or clandestinely fold: Lastly, that he use " his best endeavours to procure the writings and " proofs relating to the goods aboard the prize-ships, " that the action and seizures may be approved by the " officers of the admiralty above mentioned ; to which " officers
to MAGELLANIC A, &c. 44A " officers he is to deliver those proofs, together with *7 *9* u the prize ; and also to acquaint them with the day, V " V>J " hour, and place of the sea, in which the ship was ta- " ken ; But if he stiould be compelled by stress of " weather, Or' enemies, to make another port, he " he must inform the above-mentioned office of admi- " ralty of all these things; and, by the direction and " appointment of the fame, pay the tenth part of the ** value of the prize, the expences in unloading the u goods, and warehouse-room, being first deducted. " UpOn these conditions, we do allow and grant, " to the above-named Captain George Shelvocke , the " free use of our Gaefarean and Imperian flag, arms, " and ensign; and we command our generals, go- " vernors, and chief commanders, by sea and land, u and ail the officers and attendants of our ports, (and " we also desire of the governors,, commanders, and attendants, and officers of our allies, and neutral princes) that they kindly receive the said Captain '' George Shelvocke into the ports or stations of their ju- " ritdictions, protect him with their patronage, and " allow and permit him freely to fail, pass and repafs, '** and act in an hostile manner against our enemies, under the limitations above mentioned, for we think a it expedient for our Imperial service; nor shall we " act otherwise towards the subjects, or any comman- " ders of strips of our allies, or neutral princes, but " treat them with the fame favour and protection. In " testimony of which, we have ordered and command- ed these presents, subscribed by our own hand, and " authorised by the seal of our Imperial arms, and un- " derwritten by Rmnundus a Vilini Perlas , Marquis <e of Rialp , our secretary of state, as usual, to be made. " Given in our city of Vienna , 16th July, A. D. " 1718, of our government of the Empire 5, of Spain " iz, of Bohemia and Hungary 5*. Charles." " The said Captain George Shelvocke may make use " of this Imperial commission in warring against the " Spaniards , and any subjects of the pofleffor of that Vol.IJI. L " crown j
450 JOHN CLIPPERTON, *7'9- <l crown; but not against any otherpower, though even " enemies to the Christian name, on either side of the " equinoctial line, nor do them the least injury. Done "at Brussels, the 28th of Sept. 1718. Castillon." A commiillon once obtained from his Britannic Majesty, the Ihips returned to their old names, the Success and Speedwell-, but another revolution happened of a more extraordinary nature, which was, the turning Captain Shelvocke out of his command, and making him but second in this expedition. This was, in all probability, owing to some little mistakes in his conduct when he made that short trip to Flanders , as well as to the change of circumstances, which might have inclined the proprietors to prefer another officer, since now the whole fate of the expedition depending on the perfect knowledge of, and right conduct in, the South Sea c , a man of another turn was necessary. Ihisofficer* who was. thus preferred to Captain Shelvocke, was a peplon we have often mentioned before, viz. Captain 'Jjohn' Clippers on, who, in Captain Dampieri s voyages, is call edClippington,, who served under him in the capacity of a mate. and of whose adventures, after his separation from Dampier , we have already given a detail: But as we are now to accompany him a second time round the world, it may not be amiss to give a farther account of him i the rather, because what 1 deliver, is from unquestionable authority, having been favoured with many lights in compiling of this voyage, fie was born at Yarmouth, in the county of Norfolk ; and his relations being most of them seafaring people* he was from his infancy bred up in that way ; and, having failed in almost all forts of vessels to most of tsic ports of Europe, once to thtlVefl-Indies, and once round the globe, he had by this means gained great expe- 'penence, and was allowed, by all who knew him, to be an able pilot, an experienced seaman, and an officer as capable of conducting the expedition he undertook, as any man then in Great Britain. It is true Captain Chpperton had his faults; as, indeed, who is without
t" M AGELL A N IC A, kfc. 451 without them ? but they were very far from being ei- 1719- ther gross in themselves, or dangerous to other men. He was a blunt, rough, free-spoken sailor, had not much the air of a gentleman, and therefore he never affected it; was free and easy among his seamen-, and though he was somewhat passionate, yet he was soon appeased, and was ready to repair any injury or injustice he had done in heat of blood. He had a strict regard to what he took to be his duty, was a man of honest principles, and had a great deal of justice and humanity in his nature. His circumstances were but indifferent, which induced him to undertake this voyage for the raising himself and his family, which he left during this time in Ireland. The character Captain Clip- perton had obtained amongst the merchants for his skill, fidelity, and steady courage, recommended him to the proprietors of this expedition, who, having now advanced upwards of fifteen thousand pounds towards it, thought proper to put him into the Success , and intrust him with the chief command, leaving Captain George Shehocke in the Speedwell, where he had under him, as his second captain, a person we have often mentioned before, viz . Capt. Simon Hatley, the same whom Capt. Wlodes Rogers lost among the Gallapagos Islands, and who was a long time afterwards prisoner among the Spaniards. The instructions these gentlemen received, were in substance these; That they should proceed with all imaginable diligence to Plymouth -, from whence they were to sail, with the first fair wind, for Cape Horn, or she Straits of Magellan , and to make their passage either round that Cape, or through those Straits, as should to them appear most convenient: then to fail into the South Seas, cruise on the coasts of Chili, Peru, and Mexico , and endeavour, if possible, to meet the Acapulco ship. To prevent all disputes and disorders, their proprietors directed the captains to adhere steadily to these three maxims ; First, to be careful, above all things, not to separate from each other; because 3 L z that
45.2 JOHN CLIPPERTON, . J7 I 9*that would, in all probability, prove the ruin of their V -' V ' J voyage. They were next injoined to undertake nothing of importance without holding a council of officers, stating the question in writing that was to be debated, drawing up the resolution, with the reasons upon which it was grounded, in concise terms, and obliging every officer present to sign it. They were, lastly, directed to call a council in the same manner, as soon as possible, after any action had happened, or any prize of consequence been taken, in which the conduct of the officers concerned might be examined, and a true judgment passed upon it on the spot, subscribed by the persons assisting at the council, to prevent all possibility of dispute. That neither of the commanders might take offence at the strictness of these rules, or not enter sufficiently into the motives of them, the last thing the proprietors did, was, to present each of the captains with Mr. Rogers 's Voyage, that they might never be at a loss for proper precedents throughout the expedition. But these precautions proved in a great Measure useless, ssnce the expedition wore an unfortunate aspect from the beginning; for the sliips were obliged to lie three months at Plymouth , waiting for a winds During which time, all things fell into confusion, and factions were formed, in which the crews of both stiips were involved, as one of the historians of this voyage rightly observes, from the captains down to the cabin-boys. Qapt. bbehocke highly stomached the affront that had been offered him, in giving his ship, and the chief command, to another person ; and Capt. Clipperton being a boisterous man, knowing Sbehocke 's resentment, having himself strong passions, and not being able to conceal them, f there was nothing but debate and disputes ; so that every post carried up complaints to the proprietors, and brought down instructions, 1 reproofs, and exhortations to concord and harmony, so long as they remained in port. It is certainly a very tedious and troublesome office, to be obliged to record these sorts of quarrels ; but, as the fate of the voyage depends upon " them.
to MAGELLANIC A, £s?<\ 453 *hem, and, as it would be impossible to understand 1719* what follows, without such a previous account, we w '~' must go through it as well as we can. It had, indeed, been happy for the proprietors, the reader, and myself, if, on mature consideration on the consequences that must attend perpetual heart-burns and disputes between the commanders,' they had wisely removed one, or both ; in which case, they might, very probably, have made as prosperous a voyage as the Duke and Duchess . But it so fell out, that the concern every gentleman had for his friend in post, got the better of that concern which he ought to have had for himself, his fel- low-owners, and the common good of the voyage ; so that in this, as well as in many other cafes, private views proved the cause of public ruin. On the 13th of February 1719, the Success, Capt. Clipperton , and the Speedwell, Capt. Shehocke, sailed with a fair wind, but with as odd a circumstance, as perhaps ever happened ; which was this: That the Speedwell had still on board the whole stock of wines, brandies, and other liquors, designed for the supply of both ships ; and, how fatal a mistake it was not to divide them before this time, will very soon appear. On the 15th, they had frelh gales, squally, with rain. In the evening, they unbent their best and smallest bowers in the Success, stowed their anchors, and found themselves often obliged to Ihorten fail for the Speedwell. ' Capt. Shehocke tells us, that he came this day under the lee of the Success, and complained to Capt. Clipperton of the crankness of his ship, which proceeded from their having too much weight aloft; and therefore desired him to send for his wine and brandy, which would give him (Capt. Shehocke) an opportunity of striking down some of his guns into the hold, w hich would have enabled him to have failed much better than he did: But this, it seems, was neglected ; and was, undoubtedly, a very great omillion in Os.pt. Clipper ton ; though, at the fame time, we must acknowledge, it argued very little distrust in him of Captain Shehocke'*
454 -John clipperton, 5719. Sbelvocke's leaving him-, and is the fullest proof pofE- ble, that Clipperton had not any intention to desert the Speedwell, in order to have the sole conduct and management of the voyage. On the 19th, there arose a violent storm between nine and ten at night, which obliged both ships to take in their top-sails. The gale increasing, the Success made a signal for the Speedwell to bring to-, which Capt. She ho eke readily obeyed; and, by eleven o'clock, both (hips were under bare poles, not able to suffer one knot of canvas all the night through. On the 20th, about two in the afternoon, the storm abated, and Capt. Clipperton , in the Success , made fail, steering south and by east, whereas Capt, Sbelvocke, according to his journal, stood away to N. W. so that from this day they never saw each other, till they met in the South Seas by. mere accident. Here then properly begins the history of Capt .Clipperton, in the Success , round the globe, of which hitherto the world has had no distinct relation, though there are two histories of this voyage already extant; viz. one written by Capt, Sbelvocke , and the other by Capt. Betagh. The former is, strictly speaking, the Captain's apology for his own conduct; though it contains abundance of curious things, is written in a very entertaining style, and has a spirit in it, which enlivens the account very agreeably. The other, though published some years after, contains the charge against Capt. Sbelvocke, and is written with uncommon acrimony. The author profesies an intention to do his adversary all the prejudice in his power, and appears to have persisted very steadily in his resolution to the very last page in his book ; in which, however, there are many curious things, and some extracts from a journal of Capt. Clipperton' s voyage. But this whole book is so blended with reflections and invectives, that it is no easy matter to pursue the thread of the relation, so as to judge of the effects of either voyage: And, therefore, I found it necessary to divide them ; and, having stated, as fairly as was in my power, .the rife and subject of this dispute, I have
to MAGELLANIC A, tie. 4 55 have now done with it, and shall content myself with 171,9. prosecuting Capt. Clipperton' s Voyage round the world; in which he met with a great variety of accidents that deserve to be known performed some things worthy of notice ; and certainly lhewed as great an inclination to do justice to his proprietors, and to maintain the honour of his country, as, from a man under his circum- , stances, could be expected : And therefore I have always thought it hard,- that private prejudices- should hinder his merk from being brought into public view. As Capt. Clipperton , who was now at sea, was very indifferently provided, and without his consort, he was obliged to take upon him a discretionary power of dispensing, in some respects, with his instructions; but this he exercised very rarely, and with the uttermost caution. In regard to essential points, he never 1 digressed from them, but consulted his officers constantly, and did his utmost to prosecute his voyage with effect. The first place of rendezvous appointed by them, was the Canary Islands ; and, therefore, he sailed thirher with such expedition, that he arrived there on the 5th of March ; and, having taken in some refreshments, for which, as all his liquors were on board the Speedwell , he had great occasion, he continued cruising, as directed by his instructions, in that station, for ten days, in hopes of feeing his consort; but, being disappointed, he resolved to continue his voyage, for fear he should miss her at the next place of rendezvous, which was at the Cape de Ferd Islands and, accordingly, he left Gomera on the 15th, in order to be early in his next station. These islands, which the ancients called the Fortunate Islands , by reason of their fertility and temperature of air, having been discovered by the Spaniards in the year 1402, they named them the Canaries, or the Isands of Dogs, because they found great numbers of these creatures here. They are seven in all; viz. Laneerota , Fuerte or Forte Fentura , the Great Canary, Teneriff, Gomera, Htero or Fero, and Palma. The Great Canary is far distant from the others, and contains
45 6 JOHN CLIPPER TON, * 7 * 9 - contains gooo inhabitants. It is the feat of the Bishop; W ' J the Inquisition, and of the Council Royal, which governs all the seven islands. There is a mountain on the Temriffy called the Pike of Teneriff or Perr air which, according to the common opinion, is the highest in the world. It may be distinctly seen at sixty leagues distance. There is no travelling to the top of it but in July and August, because all the year besides it is covered with snow; though there is none to be seen at other places of that island, nor in the other six, at any time of the year. It is three days journey to the top of it; whence you may easily fee all the Canary Islands* though some of them are sixty leagues distant, titero , or Fero, is also one of the biggest, but very barren, and so dry, that there is not one drop of fresh wa:--- to be found in it, except in some places on the lea side, where it is also very troublesome and dangerous to fetch it; but this place the Providence of God supplies with rain, to remedy that inconvenience; for there grows, almost in every place, a sort of tree, which is pretty big, and incomparably thick of branches and leaves ; and its leaves are long and narrow, always green and lively : This tree is always Covered with a little cloud, that hangs over it, and wets the leaves by its dew, so that a fine clear water distils from them into little pails, which the inhabitants set to catch it. This water falls in such large quantities, that it not only abundantly supplies the necessity of the people, but it is sufficient also to water the cattle. The Canaries in general are very fertile, and abound with all sorts of provisions: They afford great store of cattle, store of corn, honey, wax, sugar, cheese, and skins. The wine of that country is pleasant and strong, and transported into all parts of the world. The Spanijb ships, that fail into America* commonly stay at those islands to take in provisions. On the right-hand of those islands* about 100 leagues off, the mariners very often perceived an island named St. Baranora ; they fay it is all over green, very pleasant, full of trees, and has plenty of all manner
to MAGELLANIC A, &c. 457 ncr of provisions : They likewise say it is inhabited by • 7 1 9 * Christians, but no man can tell of what denomination they are, nor what language they speak. The Spaniards in the Canaries often have attempted to go thither, but never could find the way into it-, which raised an opinion in the people, that it was an illusion, or an inchanted island; or that the island is only seen at certain times, and not always. But others allege a better reason, by saying, the island is small, and almost covered with clouds and that the strength of the currents is so powerful there, that they drive the ships from it. However, it is certain, that there is such an island, at the distance from the Canaries I said before. On die 21 st in the evening, they saw St. Vincent \ and, about ten the next morning, anchored in the bay, where they found a trench merchant-ship, and the Diamond of Bristol , taking in a cargo of asses for Jamaica. This was the next place of rendezvous. 1 hey spent ten days cruising in the neighbourhood, in hopes of meeting with their consort the Speedwell , but in vain; which put the crew much out of heart: So that Capt. C Upper ton found it a very difficult matter to engage them to continue the voyage. And indeed, considering the condition they were in, it is no wonder that they were a little diffident of the success of their expedition, considering the course they were to steer, which was for the Straits of Magellan , without any supply of wine, brandy, or other liquor, to keep up their spirits ; and withal their force so inconsiderable, that they had great reason to doubt, whether it would be possible for them to undertake any thing, or even get safely out of the South Seas, in cafe they found nothing worth undertaking. Before we quit these islands, it will be proper to give a short account of them, as they were at this time : The Cape de Verd Islands, which are, by the Dutch , called the Salt Istands , from the quantity of fait found there, were discovered by the />- tugueje in 1572, who inhabit some of them to this day. They are ten in number; viz. St. Jago , St. Lucia y St. Vin- Vot. III. 3 M cent.
4$-8 JOHN CLIPPERTON, 17 ?9. cent, St, Antonio, St. Nicholas, Ilka Blanco., Ilka de Sal, Ilka de Maio, Hha deFogo, and 11 ha de Bona Vista. They reach from the Green Cape, of which we shall speak hereafter, 160 leagues into the sea. Some were of opinion, that they were named Green Istands from the Green Cape others, because the sea that surrounds them is covered with a green herb, by the Portuguese called Sergaso, or cresses ; because it is much like water-c'res- fes. This herb so covers the sea, that you can hardly lee the water; nor can shy ps fail through it, but with a stiff gale of wind. It produces berries, much like white gooseberries ; but they have no manner of taste. Nobody can tell how it grows; for there is no ground or land about the place where it floats upon the water : And it cannot come from the bottom of the sea, because the lea is very deep, and, in many places, unfathomable. You begin to fee that herb, when you come to the latitude of 34 degrees, where it lies so thick, that one would take it for ib many islands ; but, what is more observable, you cannot fee this herb any-where else. When the Portuguese discovered those istands, they were all desert and uninhabited ; but now they afford plenty of rice, meal, Tartarean wheat, oranges, lemons, citrons, bananas, ananas, ignanes, bataras, melons, cucumbers, pompions, and several other forts ot fruits. They produce also garden and wild figs, have vineyards which bear grapes twice a year, and ■ abundance of great and small cattle, but especially kids. The istands of Bona Villa, Maio, and de Sal, have meat enough co lade the strips, that go to Bras I. The capital city is St. J a go, the Governour whereof commands all the islands under the King of Portugal, and resides there. It hath also an archi episcopal fee : and the jurisdiction of that prelate reaches not only over the islands, but over all the conquests the Portuguese have made on this side the Cape of Good Hope. All the istands or Cape de Verd are good places to take in fresh water upon a long voyage ; for, in the island of Maio , as we said before, there is a little river to the east, and, the
459 to MAGELLANIC A, &c. the land being uninhabited, nobody can hinder you 1719. from taking it; and, coming back, you may touch at.'-' v ''- i the island of Al. Antonio , where there is also very good fresh water, with good refreshment of fruits, as oranges, &c.' There are in that island some Portuguese ; but so few, that they cannot hinder you from taking what you please. On May 29, they had an observation, and found themselves, in the latitude of 52 degrees, 15 minutes south, being then off Cape Virgin Mary, the north point of the entrance of the Straits of Magellan, distant from Fuego , one of the Cape de Verd islands, 1580 leagues, meridional difference 36 degrees, 4 minutes west. The next day, they entered the Straits, which appeared like a large deep bay. broceeding higher up to Queen Elizabeth's Island, they sent their pinnace ashore on the main to a fresh-water-river, which was at this time frozen up. They saw large flocks of geese and ducks hereabouts ; but they were very shy. The surgeon's mate, by some accident, was left on shore, when . the boat came off; and the next morning, when he was brought aboard, he was near dead with cold. They remamed some time at Queen Elizabeth's {stand, which is. dry, and, generally speaking, barren, except as to salads, of which they found great plenty, that were of inrinite service to them at that time, when they were stek of the scurvy. The only herb, that deserves to be particularly taken notice of, was fmallage, of an extraordinary size, which they eat raw, boiled in their soops and kept the juice of it in bottles. On June 14, they sent their carpenter, with their casks, on shore, to sill their empty ones, and to look out for a proper piece of wood for a mizen-mast. They met with plenty of wild fowl and shell-fish on shore.; which were very welcome to all the ship's company, who found their stomachs increase, as they were obliged to come to short-allowance. On the 2 2d, they anchored in a fine bay, which, from its depth, they called No-bottom Bay. The trees on shore were very high, and loaded with snow ; so that 3 M 2 these
4 6o JOHN CLIPPERTON, J719. there could not be a more astonishing prospect. On the 29th, came a canoe, with four Indians, that is to fay, two men, a woman, and a boy, on board them. They were of a middle stature, dark complexion, their faces broad and round, low foreheads, black hair, very lank and short, with no cioathing, except a piece of stein to. cover their middles. What seemed most remarkable, was, their having a kind of a streak round their wrists, of an azure, pet fectly fine. It seems, that these savages are extremely jealous of their- women, for, notwithstanding all that could be said co them, they would not permit the woman, who was with them, to come on board. Captain Clipperton ordered them bread and cheese, and a dram of brandy, though it was very ' scarce. The former they eat very heartily, or rather greedily; but the latter proved disagreeable to their smell, and they could not be prevailed upon to taste it. They brought some wild geese and ducks, which they exchanged for knives; and had a fire in the middle, of their canoe, which was made of the bark of trees sewed together. They had bows and arro vs, and some fishing-tackle along with them. After about two hours stay, they rowed aihore, making signs that they would come again. The next day in the afternoon, the pinnace was lent ashore, and returned in the evening, with the Indian canoe laden with large muscles, which the. Indians had trucked with their people for bread, knives, and other things. In the beginning of the month of Tuly, they found the weather very moderate. The natives were very far from being so mischievous a people as they are generally represented ot which they had two remarkable instances: The first was, that one of their men, whom they had on {store two nights and a day, was very kindly treated by them: The other, that one of the natives being, by accident, left on board the ship, they came the next day, without any fear, and carried him away with them ; which shews, that, if they are well treated, they are not treacherous. Another Indian canoe, that came on board, had several women
to MAGELLANIC A, &c. 461 men in it, each with a necklace of very small shining 1719. shells of five or six rows, very nicely strung, which W ' J looked like mother-of-pearl. All this time, their ship's company was very sickly, and scarce a day passed, but some one or other died; which was generally attributed, to their want of something comfortable in so rigorous a climate ; for, though they had sometimes fair moderate weather for two or three days together, yet it was continually varying; and, perhaps, for two or three days afterwards, they had nothing but snow, rain, and sleet, with great flaws from the shore, that were intolerably sharp. On July 8, they buried their master gunner ashore, under a treble discharge of their small arms. .They caused a strong plank to be driven at the head of his grave, on which was the following inscription : Mr. William Pridham, Gunner of the Success, deceased July 7, 1719, this Strait , and lies buried here. On the 20th in the morning, Capt. Mitchel and Lieut. Davidson went in the pinnace to Terra del Fuego , or the south shore, in order to make a discovery of the passage that the French Tartan is said to have went through into the South Sea, May 1713, and to see if there was any anchoring beyond Cape Quad, being furnished with all necessaries for that purpose. On the 29th, the pinnace returned, having found the passage through which the Tartan passed, but so narrow, that it was judged hazardous to go far that way: But their provisions fell short, and, that place affording no manner of supply, they were forced to return, before they could satisfy themselves thoroughly; yet they found several good bays to the north-west of Cape Quad to anchor in. The Indians gave them a seale, which they broiled and roasted, and said it eat as well as any venison. On August 1, in the morning, Capt. Mitchell, with three other officers, went a second time to look for this new passage; but, after the strictest examination, could not find that ie led into the South Seas, but only into an icy bay, and this passage too so narrow, that their ship could not have made way through it. After Capt, Mitchell returned,
462 JOHN CLIPPERTON, 1719 ed, they resolved to prosecute their voyage through the Straits, which, with much danger and difficulty, they did, being all the time at very short allowance, viz. at one piece of Beef or pork to six men. On August 1 8 they arrived in the South-Seas, but the crew were then in so weak and weary a condition, that it was simply impossible for them to undertake any thing'im- mediately : Besides, Captain Clipperton was determined to pursue his instructions closely ; and therefore resolved to steer for the istand of Juan Fernandez , the third and last place of rendezvous. On September 7. Captain Clipperton, in the Success, anchored before the island 'Juan Fernandez , which he searched very diligently, in hopes of finding some testimony of the Speedwell's having been there, but to no manner of purpose. His next care was to comply, in all respects, with his instructions, by remaining upon, and cruising about the island for a full month. He likewise ordered an inscription to be cut, on a remarkable tree, fronting the landing-place ; lo that it was impossible for any ships crew to come ashore, and not fee it. This inscription ran thus. Captain John W. Magee, 1919- Tins IVilliam Magee was surgeon- on board the Success , a person extremely well known by Captain Sbelvocke, and all his Ihip's company. The reason why Captain Clipperton' s name was not inserted in this inscription, was plainly this, that having cruised before in the South Seas, and having been also a long time prisoner among the Spaniards , he did not think sir to give them notice of his return into those parts. He next sent ashore most of his lick people, and made use of all the conveniencies the island afforded for their recovery ; but found it extremely difficult, either to restore the sick to health, or to preserve those that were well in tolerable spirits, without so much as a drop of wine, brandy, or other strong liquor ; not that his people were giving to drinking in an extravagant degree, but because the thoughts of being without a- ny cordial, if they fell sick, dejected them excessively. The
t 6 MAGELLANIC A, &c. 463 The weather was very changeable while they continued 1719, there, abundance of rain falling, and they had also some '- v ' w hard gales of wind : However, they took a great many goats, which not only served them for the present eating, but likewise served to increase their sea-store, because they had an opportunity of salting them; some French stips that had touched on the island, having left a great quantity there ready made. They likewise wooded and watered with great conveniency, and cleaned their ship, that stie might be in the better condition to act: in the South Seas, where it was now visible they were to cruise alone ; for Captain Clipperton was clearly of opinion, that the Speedwell was lost ; or at least he gave out so to his stop's company to pacify them, and to hinder them from cursing continually' Captain Shehocke , for running away with their liquors*, which, however, some of the sick men did with their dying breaths. One thing was very extraordinary, that the beauty and fertility of this island, compared with the dangers and difficulties they were sure to meet with in the South Seas, tempted four of Captain Clippertcn's men to enter into a scheme for remaining in possession of so valuable a country. In pursuance of which, they actually ran away from the ship, and betook themselves to the mountains : As it was very inconvenient to lose so many good hands at such a time, and not a little dangerous to leave them in such a place, Captain Clipperton ordered the necessary measures to be taken for apprehending them, but withouteffect. jAtlast, theday before tire stip was to leave the island, Captain Mitchell , with some more officers, went into the pinnace to the ■east part of it, to look for these four men, who had then absented a fortnight, two of which men they found in custody of the goat-hunters, having met with them in .Pursuit of their game ; who affirmed, they had greater difficulty in securing these fellows, than in killing double the number of goats ; because they were forced to fire several times at them before they would .surrender. The prisoners acknowledged, that, for
464 JOHN CLIPPERTON, 1719. the first five days, they were hard put to it, being fon- v- ' v -' ced to subsist wholly ort the cabbage-trees, of which here is great plenty; but added, that, having, by good fortune, on night found some fire that was left • by their hunters, it served them in good stead ; for they could then dress their flesh, and fill their bellies. The same evening, they brought on board all the fish they had salted, four calks of seale-oil, and whatever else belonged to them. As soon as the crew were on board and mustered, on October 7. they pfepared to sail ; and, in the mean time, Captain Mitchell went on shore again in the long-boat, to set up a cross already cut for that purpose, at the foot of which he buried a bottle, in which was contained a letter for Captain Shehocke , directing another place of rendezvous, and some proper signal to know each other by at sea. At eight in the morning, they weighed from the island of Juan Fernandez , and left their two men in pofleffion of it, who are to be reputed successors to governor Selkirk ; tho', for any thing I know, we have not the flighted memoirs of their, administration. After leaving the island of Juan Fernandez , Captain Clipperton sailed northward, till he was in the parallel of Lima , where he intended to act, though he was now in a very indifferent condition, having lost thirty men between the time of his pasting the Equator, and his leaving the island of Juan Fernandez. His men exprefi sing some uneasiness in relation to plunder, he resolved, if possible, to set that point to rights, by fixing a paper to the main-mast, which was assented to by the whole ship's company. " I. The man who first spies a fail, proving a prize, " to have five dollars for every hundred ton the prize " measures. " II. Every man aboard a prize, found drunk, or " in any indecent act with a white or black woman, " to be punished according to the nature of his of- " fence, . " III. Every man, of whatsoever degree, concealing " any
to MAG ELLA NIC A. 469 " any money, or other thing, above the value of half 1719- " a dollar, shall forfeit a share of such prize, and twen- " ty dollars out of his share in the next that shall be " taken." On October 25, being in the latitude of Lima , they gave chace to a small vessel, which they came up wirh and took about eleven a clock, She was their in prize, and but an ill omen of their fucetls in this p; ' session, since sse proved, in all respects, hardly worct. taking. She was a snow of forty tons burthen, iad.-n with sand and rubbish for manure : she had seven Indian* and two negroes aboard, her master being left sick alhore. ■ All that Captain Clippertcn's people could find worth taking, was two jars of eggs, as much treacle, and a couple of pieces of eight in ready money. The next day, they met with a better prize, which was a snip called the St. Vincent, of 150 tons, laden with wood from Guiaquil. There were two friars, sixteen Indians , and four negroes aboard. On the 30th, they had the good fortune to take a large ship, bound from Panama to Lima : She was called the "Trinity, of the burthen of 400 tons ; and had been taken by Captain Rogers, when he plundered Guiaquil, ten years before : She had a great many passengers on board, and a cargo of con- j siderable value. On November 2, they took another prize, which was a vessel of seventy tons, on board of which were the countess of Laguna , and several other passengers, a great deal of ready money, and upwards of 400 jars of wine and brandy, which were articles very much wanted. Captain Clipperton desired the countess to inform him, whether sse was inclined to stay on board the prize, or accept of the accommodations they were able to afford her on board the Success. She made the former her choice, and the Captain very politely sent an officer of marines, with a guard, on board the prize, to prevent her being molested ; and with strict orders, to suffer nobody to enter her cabin but her own domestics: And he likewise sent part of the wine and brandy on board the other prizes, for the Vol. Ul. 3 N use
Z66 JOHN GLIPPERTON, 1719- use of his seamen, who were in possession of them, and U ' V ' J to whom, no doubt, this was a very welcome refreshment. It is a mistake that many able officers, both by sea and land, have committed, and therefore we need the less wonder at it in Captain CUpperton ; that the desire of acquiring grows with acquisition, till the power of preserving is absolutely lost: He had already detached several officers, and above a third part of his company, to take care of his prizes z and yet was as eager to take more, as if, instead of a privateer weakly manned, he had commanded a squadron of ships of war. On the 12th, they discovered a vessel at some distance, which was a London built pink, of 200 tons burthen, bound from Panama to Lima, with wood, a cargo of very little value to them ; yet this prize they added to their number. The name of her was the Rosaria and her master, who was a very cunning fellow, soon saw the er- rour that CUpperton had committed, and resolved to take advantage of it: He guessed, by the number of prizes that were already with th t Englifo commodore, he could not send many men on board his stiip ; and having about a dozen passengers, he directed them, under the command of a French boatswain, to hide themselves in the hold, with orders, on his making a certain signal, to seize as many of the English as came down ; assuring them, that he, with the ship's company, would be able to manage the rest. As soon as the ship struck, Captain CUpperton sent lieutc nant Serjeant- son , with eight men, to take possession of her ; who as soon as he came on board, ordered all that appeared to him, such as seamen, Indians , and negroes, into the great cabin, and placed a ccntincl at the door of it. 'I hinking that all things were now secure, he commanded the top-sails to be hoisted, in order to stand to the commodore : The men not in the least apprehensive of danger, went down into the hold to fee what was in the ship ; upon which the passengers, who were concealed, sallied out; knocked most of them down; and
to MAGELL ANICA, 6c. the French boatswain, coming behind Mr. Serjeantson, knocked him down likewise, and then ordered them to be all bound. The Spaniard's in the great cabin, in the mean time, secured the centinel, and, having thus recovered their ship, began next to consider what they should do with her. The captain was for getting a store at all events ; which design of his he pursued so eagerly, as to run his ship upon the rocks, where himself, his company, and his prisoners were all in equal danger; which he no sooner perceived than he ordered all the English to be unbound, and, by good fortune, every man of them got safe on shore, after which, lieutenant Serjeantfon , and his people, were sent prisoners to Lima. The viceroy of Peru was no sooner acquainted with this hardy action, than he gave orders for the building a new ship at Guiaquil for the Captain, and ordered all the traders to be taxed towards the expence of her, intending this as a reward for the service he had rendered to the public, and hoping thereby to encourage others to behave as he had done. On the arrival of the prisoners at Lima y they were closely examined ; and one of them gave a full account of every thing he knew, and particularly of the two men left upon the island of 'Juan Fernandez , and of the leaving there a bottle, with a letter in it for his Consort: Upon which, the Viceroy ordered a small vessel to be fitted out, to fetch away those two men, and the bottle containing the signals; and this was accordingly performed. I have drawn the whole of this relation 1 together, that the reader might have it in one view; and fit all now return to Captain Clipperton , and the manner in which he prosecuted his voyage after this unlucky accident.- It was the 20th, about three in the afternoon, when he perceived, that his last prize was retaken ; for making a signal to attack, and observing that the Pink, instead of obeying it, made all the sail she could for the shore, he immediately suspected what had happened ; and, finding it impossible to come up with her, began 3 N 2 to 46 / [7l6.
468 JOHN CLIPPERTON 1719- to consider next what was fittest for him to do j to pre- vent the bad effects that might be reasonably apprehended from her crew getting on shore : and therefore' the next morning he very prudently determined to set all his Spanijb prisoners at liberty, as well to save prpvv- sions, which, at that time, he could very ill spare ; as that their good usage might be speedily known, and returned to such of his men as were in thpir power. It is not easy to conceive, how a wiser, or a better expedient could be thought of at such a juncture; and there- ime it is but doing justice to this officer to remark,-that his so suddenly recollecting himself, and correcting his errour, was sufficient to excuse him; especially if we reflect, that, for one officer, capable of making such emends for it, there might be twenty found, who, after failing into such a snistake, couM never think of making any amends at all, but rather employ their wits in framing fictions to conceal it. Ob the 24th, they rook another prize, called Cayetan , of about 200 tons burthen, Laden with wood from Panama to Lima , having on board forty negroes, and thirty Spaniards , most of them passengers. On the 27th, they came to an anchor with all their prizes at the island La Plata, where the Captain began seriously to consider, how he should make the mots of this expedition for his owners, as well as himself, and his company. He knew that ass rhe coast was alarmed ; and that two men of war, one of fitly, the other of thirty guns, were fitted out on pur- p .0- to take him : I le was sensible, that the goods he had on board were not likely to be ransomed in that pat t of the woild; and that they would prove mere mugs, st brought into this; and therefore laid all thele things together ; and, reflecting on a proposition formerly made by Captain Wcodes Rogers, to fend a cargo of such prize-gooos to Brcfil, he resolved to try r ht experiment; anti accordingly he fitted out the bark in which he took the countess of La gum \ mounted her v eight guns; and, putting en board her thirteen F'lphjhmcn, and ten negroes, with what provisions and other
TO M AGE L LAN I CA, &e. 4S9 other necessaries he could spare, he called her the Chick - 1720 ly. Into this vessel he put a cargo of European com- w '"' modifies, valued ac 10,000 pounds and upwards; and, on the 27th, she sailed for Brasil^ under the command of Captain Mitchell. As soon as she was gone, the Captain determined to part with his other prizes, both of which he presented to the Spaniards , after taking out of them what he thought valuable, and detaining only the Captain of one of them for his pilot, and all the negroes ; after which he failed from that island, in order to cruize in his former station. On December 12, they saw a sail about five in the e- vening, and, at seven, took her. She was called the Rosary , bound from Cherippe to Panama , laden with provisions. Their launch and pinnace were all day employed in bringing on board the flour, and other provisions, in order to discharge her. Having got as much flour out of her as they could well stow away, they cut her main-mast by the board, lest she should o- veri'et, and so let her go. The prisoners informed them that their men, who were lately taken by the Spaniards, were sent to Lima by land. Here they continued to cruize, standing off all day, and towards the store at night; but nothing happened till the 27th, that they anchored in Guanchaco Bays in nine fathom, clay ground, and found two ships at anchor. They fired a shot at each ; but they made no return. Sending then their boats aboard, they found them abandoned, and could discover nothing left, except some bread, and a few jars of water. They hung out a flag of Truce, and fired two guns at half an hour's interval, hoping they would have come aboard to ransom their ships. They answered from shore; but no boat coming, they fired again, and remained there till the next day, when, seeing it was in vain to wait any longer, and that they would neither ransom nor beg their ships, they pulled down the flag, and set the ships on fire. After the taking of these ships, it was resolved to bear away for' refreshment to the Gallapagos islands, there being a greater probabi- 3 N 3 lity
47d JOHN CLIPPERTOtf 1720. lity of tlieir doing it there unmolested, than in any o~ w>J ther part of the South Seas; and accordingly, towards the latter end of the year, they put this design in execution. On January g, 1720, they anchored i n York road, on the north side of the Duke of York's if and , immediately under the equinoctial, where they found good water, scrubbed and cleaned their strip, and after ten days quitted those islands, and failed to the northward. I cannot Help remarking upon this occasibn, that this intirely justifies Captain Cowlty from the aspersions thrown upon him by later writers, as if he had given a fanciful account of those islands ; and I must intfeat my readers to observe, that, among other advantages resulting in this history of circum-navigators, it is no small one, that, by comparing their accounts, we correct abundance of their mistakes, committed chiefly from their prejudices against each other, and from the passion that almost every one of them entertained, of pasting for an abler seaman than the rest. On the 2 1 st, they made a sail, and continued chasing till eleven at night, when they came up with her; and, on her siring of their first gun, site struck. This ship proved to be the Prime Eugene , bound from Panama , and having on board the Marquis de Villa Roche , who had been president there, and all his family, who were going to Lima. This was the very ship, in which Captain Clippsrton was circumvented, and taken in his last voyage in these seas, when he was very indifferently used by this Marquis, who now lay at his mercy, and whom he used, notwithstanding, with all the civility possible. On February 20, a Spaniard dying of a wound he had received at the taking this ship, the Marquis desired he might be buried according to their ceremonies ; which was granted. When the office for the dead had been performed, and the corpse, which la f ready on a grating, was thrown over-board, with a large bag of ballast tied at his feet, the Spaniards crying thrice, its their custom is on such occasion, Boti Voiage
/ to MAGELLANICA, &c. 47* Voiags , i. e. a good voyage, the body, to the admira- 1720. tion of every one, presently floated, and continued floating as far as they could fee it ; which the Marquis de VtUa Roche concluded to be a very ill omen, and declared, that he expected some surprising accident to be the consequence. On March 8. a priest, who was on board the Prince Eugene , and the boatswain of that ship, desired leave to go on shore on the island of Velar , which was granted them', on condition they would persuade the inhabitants to drive some black-cattle to the shore, in order ro exchange them for what goods they liked best ; which they faithfully promised. On the r 6th, they returned with four head of black-cattle, some fowls and fruit, as a present to the Marquis; but at the fame time declared, that their alcade or governor would not suffer them to trade. They likewise said, that Captain Mitchell had been ashore there, and had shot some of their cattle ; but that 200 men appearing under arms, they had been forced to retire : Which account of theirs appeared the more probable, from their having linen and cloaths belonging to Captain Mitchell 's men in their custody. The next day, some letters from the Marquis de Villa Roche were intercepted, very little suitable to that honour, to which the Spanijh nobility usually pretend, since he endeavoured to stir up the people to surprise their men, and secure the boat, when they came ashore to water. Upon this, Captain Clipperton confined him for some stays yet, on the 20th, he allowed the Marquis and his lady to go ashore, leaving their only child as an hostage. On April 14. the Marquis, his lady, and the Governor, came aboard, and, an agreement being made for their ransom, the lady and child were sent on shore, and the Marquis only remained as an hostage. The prize was soon after delivered up to the Captain. In this whole transaction, Captain Clipperton appears to have been deceived and outwitted by this nobleman, who basely broke Ids word, and thereby provoked the crew to murmur against the Captain for trusting him. On
47 - JOHN CLIPPERTON 1720. On April 20, they anchored in the Gulph of Amapala ; and, not being able to water there, repaired to the i- fland ot Tigers , where they did it with great ease. On June 4, they sailed to Gorgona on the same errand, and were well supplied. On the 24th, they made another prize, which proved the St. Vincent , which they had taken once before. She was now commanded by Don Clement de Andrado, laden with timber and cocoa- nuts. On August 11, they anchored, with their prize, at the island of Lobos de la Mar , where they set up tents on the shore, scrubbed and cleaned their ifiip, and took whatever they thought valuable out of their prize. The ship's company, while they lay here, talked river their affairs, till they began to think them desperate. Sometimes they reflected on the Captain, for pretending to remain in these seas without their consort ; at other times, they blamed him for giving into the Spanijh Marquis's project for ransoming his ship, which, they believed, would never be performed : and now-and-then the ship's corporal, one James Roch , a bold, busy, intriguing fellow, threw in some sty insinuations, that, if they must go through such hardships, it was better they sttould do it for their own fakes, than for other peoples. Apd one Joseph Maynard , the botfwain's mate, pulsing things still further, a plot was at last formed for seizing the Captain, the rest of the officers, and running away with the ship. They likewise agreed, that, when their design was brought to bear, the officers should be set on shore on the island of Lobos , and all, who afterwards opposed them, shot without mercy. This wicked contrivance, however, sfras happily discovered on September 6, the two ringleaders severely punished, and the rest pardoeed •, by which wise conduct the conspiracy was suppressed. On the 17th, they took a sishing-boat, with a good quantity of salt-flih, well cured ; but found the St. Vincent , which they had left at an anchor under the island of Lobos, driven ashore, and sunk ; and, upon this, they. put
TO M AGELLANICA, £s?f. 473 put thirty-eight Spanish prisoners on board a fishing-D 20 - boat, and sent them away. On November i, they en- tered the bay of Conception , where milling a prize that outsailed them, they bore away for Coquintho, where they took a ship laden with tobacco, sugar, and cloth, in their passage. On the sixth in the afternoon, they opened that harbour, where they saw three men of war lying, with their top sails loose, and these no sooner spied them, than they cut their cables, and stood after them. The Success hailed close on a wind, and their prize did the same upon which the Spams!) man os war, that failed best, gave chace to the latter, and, at three in the afternoon, came up with, and took her. The other two ships crouded all the fail they could, till about four in the afternoon, when the biggest, having her mizen top-mast carried away, fired a gun, tacked, and stood in for the shore; which favourable oppo tu- nity the Success embraced to make her escape. In the Spanish prize, they lost their third lieutenant, Mr. James Milne , and twelve of their men. The Captain of the Spanijh man of war, who took him, was the famous Don Bias de Lesfo , who was governor of Carthagena , when attacked by Admiral Pernon. Don Bias treated his prisoner a little roughly at first, beingenraged to find he had missed the English privateer, and only retaken a Spanijh prize, and, in the first transport os his passion struck Mr. Milne over the head with the fiat of his sword ; but, when he came to himself, he sent for him up; and, finding him stripped by his soldiers, he ge- generousty asked his pardon, ordered him a new suit of cloaths, and kept him for some time on board his ship. He afterwards procu.red his liberty at Lima, paid for his passage to Panama , where he gave him a jar of brandy, and another of wine, for his fea-stores, put 200 pieces of eight in his pocket, and sent Isim to England. This unlucky accident of losing their prize revived the ill humours among Clippertorl s men, who did indeed plot again, but became exceedingly dejected. On the 16th, they saw another fail, and gave Vol. III. chace.
474 1720, JOHN CLIPPERTON, chace, which, after a few guns fired on both sides, bore away, being a clean {hip, and left them; which was another lucky escape: For she was likewise a ship of force, fitted out to take Captain Sbehocke, and commanded by one Fitzgerald , who,* knowing this was not Sbehocke's ship, and doubting what strength she might be of, had no great stomach to engage her. These, repeated disappointments, as they broke the spirits of his crew, so they had a very bad effect on Captain Clipperton himself, who began now to betake himself to drinking ; and, as this vice generally grows upon people under misfortunes, he grew at last to such a pitch, that he was hardly ever quite cool or sober. It was chiefly owing to this unhappy practice, that he fell into so many errours in his future conduct. And tho' it is true, that drunkenness is rather an aggravation than an excuse, yet, if we consider, that this poor man was a mere sailor, and had not had the benefit of a liberal education, that he fell into it purely through despair, and that he still shewed, upon all occasions, great marks of an humane and generous disposition, together with an inflexible honesty, in regard to his owners concerns, we cannot help pitying him -, because it is impossible to say, how far human nature is able to bear, without the help of certain supports, such an heavy load of misfortunes as this poor gentleman met with. In this fad plight they resolved to continue cruising to the north, not only in search of plunder, but also of a supply of provisions, and especially of flour, having expended all they had, and being reduced to three pounds of Indian corn for a mess of six men, and that but once a day. In this cruize they had but indifferent fortune ; and, therefore, on the 27th, being in sight of point Helena., they resolved to set ashore the Spanijh prisoners taken in the last prize, in which they afterwards lost lieutenant Milne ; and then determined to go once more to the Gallapagos islands, in order to refresh quietly, and restore their people to health and spirits ,
to MAG EL LAN I CA, GV. 475 spirits; which scheme they immediately put in execu- 1720. tion. In their passage to these islands, they began to suspect some errour in their log-line; and, upon measuring, found it three fathoms too short, which occasioned an errotir in this run of fifty-two miles, or thereabouts. On the 4th of December, they lost Mr. 'Thomas Fairman their purser; and the same day found themselves very near the GallapagosWiz.xv\s, and in 36 minute# north latitude, with a very strong current to the southwest ; against which they were obliged to ply. On the 6th, they sent the pinnace to discover an anchoring- place at one of the islands, which returned without Ending any, but saw abundance of tortoises on shore. Upon this, they sent the pinnace and yawl to get some; and they returned with fish enough to serve the company a day ; but, there running a prodigious surf, they could not land or look for turtle. They kept plying off and on, and sounded in foul ground from eighty to fifty fathoms. The latitude of the island 9 minutes north. It was a mere rock; so they left it, and steered away for another south-west, being the same which the Spaniards make to lie under the equator; they run along shore, but could find no anchoring; so that, being unwilling to lose more time, they made the best way they could to the Isle of Cocoas , where they hoped certainly to get some fish, fowl, and cocoa-nuts, most of their people being very sick and weak. On the 7th and 8th, they saw several islands to the north-east, but passed through them very happily, and got quite clear of them by the 9th ; but, as their people daily fell sick, they grew very apprehensive of the dangers that must ensue in case of their missing the island. On the 17th in the morning, they had the satisfaction of beholding the long-looked island of Cocoas, at the distance of about nine leagues to the north-west, which filled them with inexpressible joy. On the 1 3 th, they went all ashore, that could be spared from on board the vessel with safety, in order to build a kind of booth for the reception of their sick; which, as soon as it was finish- 3 O 2 ed,
476 JOHN CLIP^ERTON, 1721.ed, were carried ashore, and conveniently lodged. The Marquis de Villa Recbe went also ashore, where they got great plenty of fish, fowl, and eggs, together with cocoa-nuts, and other refreshments. The Captain opened here the last hogshead of brandy for the use of the ship's company, and gave every man a dram a day; and, on New Year's-day, he allowed a gallon of strong beer to every mess ; and, by having this plenty of nourishing food, and much ease, the crew began to recover, and were able to wood and water, though with much difficulty, for there was a great swell corning in from the northward constantly at ftill-moon and change; therefore they were forced to wait till the spring-tidts were abated, before they could get any thing off. On the 17th of January 1721, the Captain made the necessary dispositions for failing; but it was three days before he could get his people on board, and then there were no less than eleven of them milling, viz. three Englishmen, and eight Negroes. It is not easy to conceive, what could induce the former to hazard themselves in such a place as this, at so great a distance from the continent, so little frequented by ships,' and where they had but a small, indeed scarce any, chance of ever getting off; but it must be attributed to their dread of the dangers and fatigues to which they were continually exposed on board, and to their living constantly at short allowance; whereas here they were lure of plenty of provisions, without any other labour than that of procuring and dressing them. It is also more than probable, that they might receive some assurances from the Marquis, of their having a ship sent for them, when he obtained his liberty ; which, at best, was an hazaidous contingency, and, there is great reason to doubt, was never performed, as the reader will fee in the soquel of this voyage. On the 25th, they arrived on the coast of Mcxics, where they met with an extraordinary adventure : for, ditcoveiing a fail, about seven in the evening, they sent > heir pinnace to give chace; to whom Hie struck about eleven r
to MAGELLANICA, &c. 477 eleven : And, on the return of the pinnace, they had 17H. the surprising account, that this was a Spanish ship, called the Jefu Maria , but now in the hands of Capt. Shehocke , who commanded her; and the account he gave of the matter to their people was this, that he had no more than forty of his men aboard, the rest being all dead, or dispersed : That he lost the Speedwell at Fernandez, where they staid five months, and built a bark out of the Speedwell's wreck; with which they put to sea, and coasted along Chili and Peru , meeting several ships; but could do nothing with them, till they came to Pisco, near Lima , where they took this prize, being the ship he went in there to look for. They differed much in their account, but had no regular command among them, being all alike : As the method is in the IVest-India privateers, they had chosen a quartermaster, carrying every thing by a majority of votes; so that they found they had quite broken their articles with their owners, and had shared al! among themselves. On the 27th, Capt. Shehocke hoisted Si. George's colours, and fired three guns, as a signal to speak with them ; on which the Success lay to for his boat, which came aboard with a letter for Capt. Clipperton, who immediately sent back the boat for their purser, to be examined concerning their actions on the coast of Brasl , and elsewhere : They sent away the boat; but the purler, Mr. Hendric , staid, who gave but a dark account of their proceedings, that he was not allowed to take any account of the treasure for the owners: At eight Capt. Shehocke came aboard, being sent for by Captain Clipperton and the agent, to give an account of his transactions. The boat brought Mr. Dod, their lieutenant of marines, to continue in the Success, having been used very ill for his attachment to the owners interest, at least as he asserted, and was firmly believed by Captain Clipperton, and his officers. The next day Capt. Shehocke sent on board them six chests of pitch and dammer, and two barrels of tar, with six slabs of copper: Capt. Clipperton spared him twenty-four quarter-
478 JOHN CLIPPER TON, 172T. ter-deck guns, some great snot, and compass, and A '" Y ' J few other necessaries : His people laid out a great deal of money with the crew of the Success , for eloaths, Ihoes, hats, and other necessaries : There remained with them also two of he Speedwell's officers •, Mr. Hen - dric'y the purser, and Mr. Dad, the lieutenant of the marines, designing to go with them for China. The Success, still keeping to the northward, on the coast of Mexico , saw Capt. Shehocke several times, as they were sensible, by his making signals -, but, considering, in the beginning of the month of March, that both time and place afforded them a fair opportunity of coming up with the Manilla ship, before she entered Acapulco, the officers determined, the next time they saw Captain Shehocke , to propose to him the making such an attempt. On the 13th, they made a sail, which, by the signals, proving to be Captain Shehocke, they brought to; and the Captain, with his lieutenants, came on board them. At this general consultation it was agreed, by the officers of both ships, that the attempt ihould be made jointly; and that, to prevent their meeting with the lame fate which befel Capt. Rogers and Capt. Courtney , when they attempted the biggest Manilla ship, they should run her aboard at once, having indeed no other chance for taking her. Accordingly they cruised for her, and, on the 15th, Capt. Clifperton held another consultation, wherein proposals being agreed on, were signed, and sent to Captain Shehocke ; that if he and his crew would refund all the money snared among themselves contrary to the articles with the owners, and agree to put it in a joint stock, then all faults should be forgot, both companies would unite, and proceed to cruize for the Acapulco ship. This proposition was but indifferently received by Captain Shel- vocke, and his people, who did not care to part, in any shape, with what they possessed, and therefore declined giving any answer to this proposal. We shall, in its place, mention the reasons assigned by Captain Shd~ vockt for this manner of proceeding : Our business at present
to MAGELLANIC A, &c. 47s* present lias with Captain Clipper ton , and his people, 1721. who, perceiving that there was nothing to be expected from their consort, determined to manage their own affairs the best way they could. In the first place, they considered, that the time of meeting with the Manilla ship was by some days elapsed ; that most of their people were weak and sickly ; that, even at their present short allowance, they were victualled but for five months -, and that, consequently, it was their business ro think of going directly to the East Indies , without loss of time, in order to preserve what they had got for their owners and themselves. This resolution appeared, in every respect, so reasonable and well-founded, that it was instantly put in execution -, and, without waiting for, or consulting Captain Shelvocke any more, they concluded to leave the South Seas, being then to the south-south-east of Port Marquis, and in the latitude of 16 degrees, 50 minutes north. In order to understand the latter part of this account, it is necessary to fay somewhat of the times when these Acapulco ships fail. They usually leave the Philippine Istands about the beginning of July, and they arrive at the La- drones about the beginning of September: from whence they proceed to Acapulco ; in which port they are commonly expected about the middle of January -, and then the ship usually remains in port till towards the latter end of the month of April, and then she sails again from Acapulco for Manilla . Yet this is not to be considered as a constant rule ; for, according as the winds set in earlier or later, it alters. In the present case, it is plain, the ship they waited for, was not the vessel expected from, but the galleon that was to return to, the Philippine Islands; on board which, there is always a prodigious quantity of silver : Yet it must be owned, that either the ship failed earlier than usual, or else they left her behind them when they sailed for the East Indies, whether we now are to attend them. The run, from rive coast of Mexico to the island of Guam , they performed in fifty-three days ; and, on the 10th
4*0 JOHN CLIPPERTON, 1721. 1 a th of May, arrived in sight os the istand Serpana, m the latitude of 13 degrees, 42 minutes north ; though, in the Spanish charts, this island is generally laid down in 14 degrees. In this passage they lost six of their people, and the rest of them were so weak and low, that nothing could be a more joyful sight to them than this istand. They determined, however, to proceed to that of Quam, as best known to Europeans, and where they were most likely to meet with provisions ; in which, perhaps, they judged the matter wrong ; for, in their present weak condition, it would have been more ad- viseable to have gone to Serpana, where the Spaniards haye not so great a force. May the 1 3th, they anchored in the road, and sent their pinnace ashore, with a stag of truce, in order to obtain some provisions ; but the people answered, that, without the Governo'ur's leave, they could not trade with them for fish, fowl, or greens: And, therefore, applications were immediately made to him for that purpose ; which had, at present, a favourable reception. Mr. Godfrey , the owners agent, who had been sent up to JJmatta , where the Governour lives, returned on the 16th on board one of their prows, with a message, importing, that if they behaved civilly, and paid honestly, they should be fur- nistied with provisions. Soon after their own launch arrived, and brought on board some cattle, bread, fu- g^r, fruit, greens, palm-wine, anc| brandy, from the Governour, with a large quantity of chocolate. In return for which, his health was drank by the whole ihip's crew, under a salvo of seven guns : This was the last act: of civility that passed between theme But, before we come to these disputes, it will be necessary to lay something of the state of the island at that time. This island lies directly north and south; and, according to the best account that could be obtained of it, from a Negroe belonging to the Marquis de Villa Roche, who travelled quite round it, it is near ten leagues in length, and five in breadth : There are several villages upon it; but the most remarkable are these that follow viz. Amatta, Airy, Agana, Anigua, Asa , Huga- tee^
t 9 MAGELLANIC A, &c. 481 /ft?, andRigues. The native inhabitants were formerly [721. very numerous, not fewer, it is laid, than 15,000 ; but, at this time, there were scarce a tenth part ib many, at least under the dominion of the Spaniards ; for there still some hundreds have established themselves in the mountains, and preserve their freedom, notwithstanding all the efforts made by the Spanifij Go- vernour to reduce them. These Indians are a strong, active, vigorous, and warlike people ; but, withal, reputed equally cruel and treacherous: Perhaps, the Spaniards^ exaggerate their ill qualities to extenuate their own ; for it is certain, they have used these people hardly. The Spanijh garrison consists of 390 men, which are relieved from time to time from the Manillas-, and his Catholic Majesty allows 30,000 pieces of eight per annum for their maintenance ; though it is of no other use, than to afford succour to the annual strip in her passage to and from the Eajl Indies, in which respect it is of great service. On the 18 th of May, their prisoner, the Marquis de Villa Roche, went ashore, in company with the agent, the first lieutenant and doctor having agreed with the Governour about his ransom; they gave him five guns at landing. Our launch was employed six days in bringing wood, water, and provision aboard ; during which time, the Governour desired he might have some arms and ammunition in exchange: Accordingly Capt. Clipperton sent him twelve fuzees, three jars of powder, sixty round shot, four pair of pistols, besides cutlasses, long swords, and daggers, The 25th, they received a letter-, wherein the Governour demands the Marquis's jewels; some consecrated plate, and two Negroes, being Christians, and subjects to the King of Spain ; as also a certificate, under the Captain and officers hands, that peace was proclaimed, detaining Mr. Godfrey and Mr. Pritty till all this was performed. Hereupon the Captain sent a letter, with a certificate, that the Soli- 4 ad, the last prize we took on the coast of Chili, told ps, there was a peace between England and Spain-, but, Vsl,- III. 3 P withal,
4"r JOHN CLIPPER TON, 1721. withal, assured the Governour, that if he did not, in twenty-four hours, fend the ransom with the two gentlemen, he would demolish the houses upon the shore, burn the ship in the harbour, and do all the mischief he could at the Philippine Islands. Soon after they,received a letter, that the Governour would pay for the consecrated plate, and desired more powder and shot: To which the Captain answered, that he could not spare any more, nor Negroes. On the 28th, their yawl went alhore for more provision; but the officer, who had the government of the village, told them, we should have no more, unless they sent more powder and shot: Upon which they immediately weighed, staying for no answer by Mr. Godfrey or Mr. Pritty, and sent the pinnace a-head to sound, making the best of their way to the ship in the harbour. The people alhore had raised a battery during this ffiam-treaty, from whence they began to fire at their pinnace ; which, being returned, gave account, that what channel they found, was within pistol-shot of the shore. At six in the afternoon, making up to the ship, they ran a-ground, the Spaniards having carried her in ffiole water; so that now they sustained two fires, one from the battery Over their heads, and another from the ship. At nine they got foul of the rocks, where they cut away two of their anchors, endeavouring to get the ship ,oss; during which time, the enemy sired so warmly with stones and shot, from a new battery erected on an hill, that they suffered extremely in their hull and rigging. They had three men wounded, besides the misfortune of losing Mr. Davidson , their first lieutenant, who was an honest man, and a good officer. Thus the Success was forced to lie in a miserable condition, exposed to the continual fire of the enemy, who, in the night, had still this advantage of them, that the surface of the water being as smooth as a mill-pond, easily stewed them their position ; whereas they had no other direction for their aim than the stashes of the guns from the Spanish batsery. In this emergency, the Captain being over- • come
to MAGE LLANIC A, &x. 48Z come with liquor, and quite unable to command the 1721. ship, the officers came to a resolution of running out clear of the enemy as soon as they could get the ship afloat; and signed a paper to indemnify Mr. Cook, if he would take upon him the command. At four in the afternoon they set her a-floating, and cut away the small bower-anchor; but, in ten minutes, they run a-ground again; at nine carried out the kedge-an- chor ; but, in heaving, the hawser broke : They immediately carried out another hawser, with a lower deck gun to it, having now lost all their anchors, and still a-ground. At two in the forenoon the enemy hailed them several times to surrender, or expect no quarter ; at five they carried out the main-top-mast-shrowd- hawser on the starboard-bow, with another gun, still plying the enemy with their great guns below, and small-arms in the poop. They did them little mischief, though the Spaniards never misted them; especially their boats, as soon as they saw them stir. At eleven in the forenoon they carried out the rest of the small bower, with two lower-deck guns, right a-head, into five fathoms; they cleared away the hold, ready to start their water, to make the ship lighter ; got their upper and lower deck guns forward, to bring her by the head, the ship hanging abaft on the rock ; they kept two guns out of the stern-posts continually firing at the enemy's new battery, but could not bring them to bear: During this twenty-four hours, they had happily only one wounded ; but the strip was wretchedly torn and mangled between wind and water. The 30th, at fix in the afternoon, the strip floating, they cut away the yawl, being funk with the shot; the other boats were much damaged ; they hove to their small bower, then cut away it and the other two hawsers, and sent their pinnace a-head, to tow the ship off: Just as they got afloat, the enemy fired so smartly from the new battery, that their shot raked them through between wind and water, killing one of their people, and wounding two others. Thus they lost both their bow- 3 P 2 anchors
484 JOHN CLIP PER TON, 172?. anchors and cables, the stern and kedge anchors, four W ' J hawsers, four of their lovver-deck guns, and nineteen barrels of powder, two men killed, and six wounded, having stood for no lei's than fifty hours a fair mark sot* the enemy to fire at; and, if they had not got clear, it was believed they would have funk them before morning The whole crew were very lorry for Mr. Godfrey and Mr. Pritty, not knowing how the Gover- nour might use them ashore. At ten in the forenoon they brought to, and began to splice their rigging, not a rope of which escaped a shot; as for the masts and yards, they were all severely peppered, and the carpenters worked all night, stopping the holes in the ship's bottom. At seven in the forenoon they stowed their guns in the hold bar in the ports, hoisted in the launch and pinnace, and at noon steered away west, with an easy sail, hoping io save their passage before the monsoons came on. Their carpenters were employed in fixing the masts and yards, and the rest of their people in fixing the rigging. At six in the afternoon the body of the island Guam bore east seven leagues; from whence they took their departure, north latitude 13 degrees, 20 minutes, allowing half a point north-east variation, designing now for China. This was certainly one of the worst errours committed by CHpperton ; for he should never have quitted'the-Marquk, who had behaved so dirtily to him before, without having the money in his hand ; nor had the Marquis any title to favour; A nobleman, that acts the scoundrel, degrades himself. Besides, if Captain Clipperton had kept the Marquis, there had been an end of all his schemes, and either the Spanish Governour of Guam would not, or could not, have treated him as he did for it is more than probable, that he was forced to behave in this strange manner by the Marquis. The last mistake ot Clipperton 's was his pretending to attack the town in the manner he did. The commander of a privateer should never attempt revenge, unless he is certain of compassing his design ; and, if he had dissembled, as
to MAGELLANIC A, &c. 48F Well as the enemy, he might have fouhd an opportu- 1721. ruty of making them repent their ill usage. W " J It was a very dangerous voyage upon which they Were now to enter: The run from Manilla is generally esteemed 400 leagues, and they were to fail much farther, without any considerable addition to their stock and provisions, ruffled by the late accident, and apprehensive that their vessel would scarce last out the voyage ; for, on the 23d of June, they found her, on a strict examination, in a very shattered condition, having scarce a whole timber in her Upper works, discovered one of their fashion-pieces to be shot through, which, being the chief support of the aster-part of the ship, they were obliged to trap her, to keep her together. It blowing pretty fresh, they durst not carry sail, but Were forced for a Week together, to scud under bare poles, through variable winds, and bad weather. This was a melancholy condition for people to be in, in seas with which they were little acquainted, and sailing by draughts on which they could not depend. Yet, the journal I make use of, acknowledges, that both Dam- fier's accounts and charts were right, and that to a degree of exactness, much superiour to those laid down by persons of much greater figure; so that if it had ■ not been for his assistance in his books and charts, they could scarce have extricated themselves from the difficulties they were in. On the 24th of June, they were in sight of the Bajhee Islands; and, on the last day of the month, they saw the island-sholes of Praia. On the ist of July, they fell in with other islands, and found several boats that were fishing ; though no such islands are laid down in any chart, and this put them intirely out of their way ; so that, not being able to form any judgment of their true course, they anchored under one of these islands, in 13 fathoms water, and dispatched away their pinnace for intelligence, how Macao bore from them, for which port they were bound. On the 2d of July, the pinnace returned with a boat, in which there were three Chinese sailors, whom they could
486 jOHN CLIPPERTON, 1721-could not understand, and from whom all they could ''" w learn was, that Canton lay to the south-west. On the zd, finding they were too far to leeward of Macao, and not being able to get a pilot, they resolved to take the only course there was left them to take, which was, to fail for Amoy ; before which port they arrived on the Zth in the evening, but were afraid to enter it in the night, and therefore plied them off and on till daylight. They took notice of a great number of snakes in the sea, which were brought down by the rivers that empty themselves on that coast. The entrance of the port of Amoy is remarkable enough ; for it has an high mountain, on the top of which is a tower, which may be seen twenty leagues off at sea ; on one side of it is a little island, that lies immediately before the bay. The river Cbangeheu discharges itself here into the Chinese Sea, and thereby forms a spacious bay, about eight leagues in circuit, where ships may lie very safely at anchor, all the difficulty being in their getting once into port; which they accomplished very happily in the evening of the 6th of July, and were extremely well pleased to find themselves once more in a place where they might hope to obtain refreshments, to be able to repair their ship ; or, if that should be found impracticable, to obtain a passage from thence for Europe. The Captain too rejoiced as much as any of them; for, having had his full share of afflictions and misfortunes at sea, he was extremely delighted with the prospect of securing a small matter of monfcy to his own use, and sending home what belonged to the owners, in case his ship was really, as his people reported, past repairing- They were no sooner anchored in this port, than they had ten customhouse-officers put on board them. At Amoy , as in most other ports in China , the customs are under the direction of a single mandarin, stiled the Hoppo, or Master-general of the customs. The French call this officer Hoppow, which may, perhaps, set us right as to the pronunciation. The Chinese , in general, are very
TO M A G E L L A N I C A, &c; , 4 - 3 ? justly reputed the craftiest pecple in the world; and it * 7 21 - is an invariable maxim of their policy, to chuse the cun- W ' J ningest man they can find to execute the office of Hop- po ; and after saying this, we need not descend to the particular character of the man Captain Clipperton had to deal with. I shall only add, that the people of Amoy , in general, are thought to be the least nice in points of honour, or principles of honesty, in China. The first thing these custom-house officers demanded was, what the ship was reputed to be ; and what business she had there. Capt. Clipperton, answered, the strip belonged to the king of Great Britain ; and that she put in there by stress of weather, in order to obtain provisions and necessaries. The custom-house officers next demanded an exact account of the number of men and guns, their cargo, and the time they intended to stay ; all which they put down in writing, and then they departed. The very next morning, the men mutinied, and insisted, that the Captain should immediately pay them their prize-money, because they were satisfied the Success was in no condition to put to sea. The man, who made this demand, was one John Dennifcn ; and Mr. Taylor, to whom we are indebted for this account, interposing in the Captain's behalf, one Edward Bereman told him, he had best desist, unless he had a mind to have a brace of balls through his head ; so that here was plainly an end of all regular proceedings, as well as of the Captain's authority. The people brought aboard a good quantity of rice, some cattle, fowls, wood, and water-, for which they were paid : And, on the izth, the officers went on shore, to wait on the Hoppo, who had a very fine palace, and who treated them with great civility, and gave them leave to anchor in the harbour, and remain there till the monsoons were over; for which, however, he demanded, and soon after received in ready money, a very extraordinary compensation, under the title of port-charges, amounting to 1700 dollars, which n about 400 1 . Sterling. We have already taken notice, that Captain Mitchell went out se- ' c®nd
48 8 JOHN CLIPPERTON, J7ix. cond to Captain Clipperton ; and that, on his going m '" rW Brasjl , Mr. Davidson succeeded him; and, on his being killed in the unfortunate affair of Guam, Mr. Cook succeeded him, who now demanded thirty shares, in right of his office in which he was supported by the men, whom he courted by a continual compliance with their humours. Captain Clipperton, and the rest of the officers, seeing the turn things were likely to take, were very desirous, that some allowance should be made to the officers, that were taken prisoners, and to Mr. Hendrie and Mr. Dod, who came on board them from the Speedwell : But their endeavours were fruitless ; for the men would hear of no such allowances. Whilst these disputes lasted, some took it in their heads to go ashore, without asking leave; and, when Captain Clipperton would have corrected them, the whole company declared on their side, and prevented it. After this, all things fell into confusion: The men refused to work till they had their prize-money ; and, to shew they valued the credit of their country no more than they did the respect due to their officer, they applied to the chief mandarin of the place, whom the Chinese style Hyhung, and desired, that he would do them justice against their Captain. Upon this, Mr. Clipperton was summoned before him -, and, on the Mandarin's demanding a reason why he refused to give his men satisfaction, the Captain produced the amides, which shewed that they were not to share their prize money, till their return to, London. But Captain CjsAE (for so he was now styled,) gave the Mandarin another fort of account ; which produced a guard of soldiers being sent on hoard the ship, with a peremptory order from the Mandarin, tp Captain Clipperton, immediately to settle the shares, and' pay them over to the men; with which he was obliged to, comply. This transaction would admit of some remarks ; but, as they must be obvious to every reader, J shall not dwell upon them, but proceed with my re- - lation. On September 16, this distribution was made, pursuant
to MAGELLANICA, 4S9 stunt to the Mandarin's order-, and, no allowance be- 1721c. ing reserved for such as were taken prisoners, the re- WvJ presentatives of those who were dead, or the two gentlemen, who had served on board the Speedwell, the prize-money stood thus : Dollars. The (hare of money and plate, - - 280 The share of gold, - aoo The share of jewels, - ~ ~ 39 The total of a fore-mast-man's dividend, - 419 Which, at 4 s. 8 d. a dollar, makes Englijh mo- ' ney 97 1. 15 s. 4 d. According to this distribution, ps. s. d. The Captain's share was - - 1466 10 o The second Captain, - - - 733 05 o The Captain of marines, Lieutenants of the (hip, and Surgeon, - - - 488 16 8 But though Captain Cook, and his associates, had the good luck to carry their point in this manner, yet Capt. 'Clipperton's defence had so much weight with the chief mandarin, that, before he obliged him to proceed to this distribution of (hares, he ordered one half of the cargo to be secured for the benefit of the owners; which, •in ready money, wrought silver, gold, and jewels, amounted to between 6 and 7000 1. Sterling, which he caused to be immediately put on board a Portuguese Eaji-Indiaman ,• called the Queen cf Angels, Don Fran- ■cifco la Fero Commander: which (hip was unfortunately burnt at Rio Janeiro on the coast of Brafil, June 6, 1722. So that of these effects the owners received no •more, the charges of salvage deducted, than 1800 1. I have drawn all these facts together, though the last of them did not happen till their arrival at Macao, that the reader might, in one view, fee the consequences of this jnutiny, and the means, by which the proprietors of this expedition were defeated of its profits, notwith- V01.ni. 3 standing
490 JOHN CLIPPERTQN J721. standing all the care that Captain Clipper ton could take to secure their property. The reader will easily perceive, that there was a strange mixture of right and-, wrong, of justice and of violence, in the conduct of the Chinese Mandarin towards Capt. Clipper ton and his people. I have endeavoured already to throw some light upon the subject, by giving the reader a general account of the disposition and conduct of these people ; but, as I have some very particular memoirs, not only of this transaction, but of the state of things in general in this port at that time, 1 presume 1 shall do him a pleasure, if I d well somewhat longer upon this subject. The people, and even the mandarins, at Army , have so managed matters for a long space of time, that, amongst their countrymen, who should know them best, they have acquired to their port the epithet of Hiamuin Booz, i. e. Amoy the wicked, or still more literally transiated, Amoy the roguilh. The fishermen ppon the coast shake their heads, and pronounce these words with a very significant air, whenever they meet with any European ship inclined to put into that port; but, for want of understanding the language, or, perhaps, from a confidence in their own prudence, they very rarely make a right use of these warnings ; which, in a short time, however, they are sure to repent: for it is a certain rule, that particular provinces never acquire such marks or characters of dishonesty, without deserving them. The custom of this port is, to disarm every ship that comes into it, arid then to fend two frigates, or, as they are called in the Chinese tongue, than- pans , full of men, to ride near the vessel, in order to observe her, and execute the directions, which the mandarins may send them. Besides the monstrous imposition, under the name of port-charges, which has been already mentioned, they have some other strange methods of coming at money here; for though tire small craft of the country seem to have free liberty of carrying on board all forts of provisions, which, being in great plenty there, ought to be afforded at a mod ra-e
to MAGELLANIC A, &c. 491 rite price, yet, in reality, every one of these vessels 1721. goes on board the chanpan first, and there pays a con- fideration for leave to go on board the strange vessel; and, by this means, the price of all manner of provision is raised about a third. Another mean artifice, practised by the mandarins, is sending presents of wine, provisions, and costly curiosities, to the captains, and other officers of which, when the ship is ready to sail j they lend a Very exact memorial, with the prices tacked to it; and the last article is lo much for the clerk's Writing the bill: which must be discharged in money or commodities, before their arms or ammunition are returned. It would require a lheet or two to lay open lall the rest of their practices; and therefore I shall content myself with giving the leader an account of what happened to a Britijh ship in this port in the year 1715, which, very probably, was of service to Captain Clipperton , and hindered him from being worse treated than he Was. This ship anchored in the port of Ariioy ; and, having run through the whole circle of their frauds, fold the best part of their Cargo, at last, to merchants recommended by the chief mandarin, who very fairly became bankrupts in twen- ty-four hours after they had the goods in their hands. The Captain bore this with the greatest paiience; he did not so much as suffer any harsh expression to escape him ; he took all things in good part, and even duped the Chinese by his studied dissimulation ; but, as soon as he had licence to depart, he made a clear ship, loaded all his guns, ordered his men to their respective posts, and then cut away a Japanese junk of twice the value of his cargo, and carried her into the bay directly. This surprised th t Chinese excessively ; but they immediately fitted out twenty or thirty chanpans, crouded full of rnen, who had the courage to venture very near the ; Briiis.7 ship, till the Captain discharged a stern-gun ; and thetl they fled precipitately into port. This affair being brought before the Emperour, he ordered all the mandarins at Amoy to be cashiered, and satisfaction to 3 0^2 be
492 JO FIN CLI'P PERTON, 1721. be made for the Japanese yank. out of their effects-: on- W ^ 1 ly the chief mandarin- had a milder sentence than th& rest, being mulcted a year's profitsof his employment. This gave them a great dread to the English ships; and perhaps one reason that induced them to side with the seamen against Captain Clipperton wa c , that they might have power on their side. In short, during the stay they made of ten weeks, they sufficiently experienced 'all the artifices of this fraudulent and covetous people, from whom the Captain had now noway to defend himself, but was obliged to submit to whatever they demanded. By December 25, the season and their inclinations concurred to deliver them from- so uneasy a situation ; for, by this time, even the common men began to be weary of the place, or rather of the people, who carried their scheme of politics quite through, and, in small as well as great matters, stewed themselves as finished cheats, as the world could possibly produce, of which almost every man, who dealt with them,- was a competent witness. On September 25, their arms and ammunition were again put on board the Success , and the very fame day they weighed out of the harbour, and got into the road or gulf, from whence they proposed going to Macao, in order ro have the ship surveyed, the crew insisting, that Ihe was not in a condition to put to sea, in order to return home ; and Captain Clipperton affirming the contrary, as well knowing, that they insisted on this point purely to justify their own conduct, and prevent their being pnniihcd in Enolimd for their behaviour in China. On September 30, they weighed anchor from the Bay of Amoy, which lies in the province of Tonkin, in order to proceed to Macao, in the road of which they anchored October 4, i his was formerly one of the most considerable places in China, though it is now much fallen to decay. This place has been now above j 50 years in the hands of the Portuguese: And the manner hv which they became possessed of it, is an excellent specimen of Chinese genera sity; for they, coming from
to MAGELLANICA, &c. 493 from Malacca and India to trade with the Chinese , and 1721. Seine overtaken with the bad weather, some snips mi- w '~ l serably perished, for want of secure harbours, in the islands about Macao ; which made them alk some place of safety to winter in, till the season would allow them to return home ; and the Chinese , for their own advantage, gave them a spot of rocky land, then inhabited by robbers, that they might expel them, as they did. At first, they were permitted to build thatched houses-, but afterwards, having bribed the mandarins, they not only erected substantial structures, but forts. One of these is at the mouth of the harbour, called the Fort of the Bar , the wall of which terminates at a rock, which ft an hermitage of the fathers of the order of St. Augustine on the Hill. The other, being the biggest, is called the Fort of the Mountain , because situated on the very top of an hill. There is also another high forty called Nucflra Senhora de Cuia , or, Our Lady of Guidance.' The city of Macao stands on a peninsula; and there is a very strong wall built across the isthmus, with a gate in the middle of it, through which the Chinese go in and out at pleasure ; but it is death for any Portuguese to pass that way. Some travellers have reported, that the Portuguese were sovereigns here, as in other places in the Eajl-Indies: but they never were ; for the Chinese are much too wise a people to suffer any thing of that kind. It is indeed true, that, taking all things together, the city of Macao is as fine, or perhaps a finer city, than could be expected, considering its untoward situation. It is likewise true, that it is very regularly and very strongly fortified ; and that there are upwards of 200 pieces of brafs-cannon upon its walls ; but, with all this, it can only defend itself against; strangers. The Chinese ever were, and ever will be, masters of it, without firing a cannon, or striking a blow. 1 hey have nothing to do, but to shut that gate, which they have often done, and place a guard there ; for Macao is then undone. The inhabitants cannot subsist so much as for a day, without receiving provisions
464 JOHN CLIPPERTON 171X.provisions from the adjacent country; and, besides, w ^che place is so shut in by well-peopled islarids, and the Chinese are ib much masters at sea, that, on the slightest difference, the Portuguese zt Macao might be starved. But td proceed from reasoning to facts: The Per- tuguese have indeed the government within the city- walls over their own people, and yet Macao is, strictly and properly, a Chinese city ; for there is a governor!r resident upon the spot, and an Hoppo , or Commissioner of the customs; and these Chinese mandarins, with alt their officers and servants, are maintained at the ex- pence of the city, who are at the charge of the Portuguese government also. In spite of all this, t^e inhabitants were formerly excessively rich, which was owing to the great trade they carried on to Japan ; which is now, in a manner, lost: But, as they are seated near Canton , and are allowed to go to the two annual fairs at that city, and to make trading voyages when they are over, they still find a way to subsist, and that is all ; for the prodigious presents they were forced to make to the Chinese mandarins upon all occasions, eat up, in a great measure, their profit. A vessel, that goes to Canton , pays, in the first place, 100 1 , sterling for leave to trade ; they are next forced to make a considerable present for permission to have their goods brought on board by the Chinese, to whom they not only pay ready money for what they buy, but advance it likewise sometimes a year beforehand. After all this, there is a present necessary for leave to depart, which is at least double to what was given for leave to trade; and they pay duties to the emperour for all they buy, over and above these presents to his ministers. As soon as Captain Clipperton in the Success entered this port, he fainted the fortress 5 which compliment being returned, he went on shore, and found in the place the Captain of a Portuguese man of war, whose name we hate mentioned before, and who undertook to carry what belonged to the owners to Bra- si. 'J he crew found themselves a little at a loss here, the
to MAGELLANIC A, &c. 495 the Portuguese Captain declaring absolutely in favour 1721? of their commander ; and therefore Mr. Cook., and an- other gentleman, proposed going to Canton , to consult Mr. Winder, supercargo to an East Indiaman, and son to one of the principal proprietors, as to the measures which should be taken about carrying the Success home ; and, upon their return, the ship was surveyed, condemned, and sold for 4000 dollars which was much less than she was worth ; but that was none of Captain Clipperton' s fault, who, to Ihew that he still adhered to his former opinion, agreed with the persons who had bought her for his passage in her to Bata-via ; a plain indication, that there was no danger of her foundering at sea. The ship sold, the crew immediately conceived that every man was at liberty to shift for himself, and to use his best endeavour to save what little was left him, after so unlucky an expedition. They had reason indeed to think it unluky, stnee they were, by this time, satisfied, that Captain Mitchell, his crew, and cargo were all gone to the bottom, or else fallen into the hands of the Spaniards which was to them pretty much the same thing. It was, however, some consolation to them, that they were in the neighbourhood of the Englijh factory at Canton ; and therefore, fix do- Jars apiece being required for a passage in one of the Chinese boats thither, twenty of them agreed to it immediately, in hopes of getting a passage from theftce home to England-, and of this number Mr. Taylor the mate was one : But, before they came to fail, he had a foresight of the danger and therefore chose to lose his money, and wait for another conveniency ; and he had reason to look upon this loss as a piece of frugality, fince the next news they heard was, that the boat had been taken by a pirate, and that most of the people had lost their things. After a stiort stay at Macao , an opportunity offered for Mr. Taylor's getting speedily and lately to Canton, a mandarin going thither in an armed boat, for which he, and the rest of th c-F.nglijk seamen that
496 JOHN CLIPPERTON 1721.that went with him, paid twenty dollars an head: And W '' J their passage taught them, that, in some cafes, there may be a frugality in expence -, for, in their passage, they sow a pirate take a boat in sight of the mandarin's •, which plainly shewed, that the government winked at those things, and perhaps thought it good policy to raise a considerable revenue, partly by presents from the pirates, and partly by sums paid by merchants and passengers for their protection; which is one among a number of facts that might be brought to prove, that the boasted wisdom of the Chinese is nothing more, than the science of dextrously hiding their robberies fro n the inspection of the law ; a sort of practice, in which, perhaps, they are as much exceeded by some northern nations, as in the use of the compass, of which, notwithstanding the Chinese boast that they were the first inventors ; and, perhaps, a better title might be made to that invention by them, than by any body else ; but, with respect to the improvement, their compass, and their manndr of managing this political trade of pirating, are equally clumsy. • On November 4, they arrived at the English factory at Canton , where they were well received, and promised all imaginable assistance towards their getting home, which was what they now chiefly aimed at. There were, at this time, several strips there ready'to fail, first for several porrs in India , and then for Europe. The Captains of these vessels being solicited by the factory to take Captain Clipperton' s men on board, they met, and agreed to carry them to Great Britain for five pounds a man, being a very great favour ; and accordingly they all paid their money. Mr. Eaylor , and two or three more, went aboard the Maurice , Captaiq Peacock, at IVanapo, being the place' where the Ettt ropean ships lay, about three leagues down Canton river. The rest of their company divided in several ships. On the 9th, they failed, in company of the Maccles- field, an Englift Eaft-Indiaman , and an Osender , called
to MAGELLANIC A, &c. 497 the House os Hujlria. Mr. Taylor arrived safely at Ba -1721,. tavia in the month of December, sailed from thence'"' w to the Cape of Good Hope in February, came to St. Helena in March, and, in May 1722, arrived in London. The reft of the (hip's company returned, some sooner, some later, as opportunities offered ; but, as for Captain Mitchell , who was sent to BrasI with a small crew, he was never heard pf, and most probably was destroyed on the ifiand of Velas , where he went ashore for the sake of getting fresh provisions. This has been generally considered as the greatest blemish of Captain Clipperton' s administration, I must confess, I think, without any just reason. In the first place, I conceive the great stress Captain Rogers lays upon that expedient might very well engage Captain Clipperton to try what might be done in this way, especially since the owners had so strongly recommended Captain Rogers' s account of his voyage, as the rule and guide of that which was to be made at their expence. In the next place, I must own, I think the project in itself is so very reasonable, that I do ; npt wonder an officer, who had the good of the voyage at heart, was desirous of trying the experiment. They very well knew, that the prizes they had taken would produce little or nothing in the South Seas, because the sums demanded by the governors for licences to trade, were so extravagant, that no prosit could result from such a commerce, either to. buyers or fellers. They knew too, that carrying those goods back again to Europe was doing little or nothing ; and therefore, if there was a probability of fending them to a place, where they might be sold to great advantage, and the produce invested so, as to procure considerable profit on the voyage from Btajil to London, it appears to me in the light, of a very good design. As to the vessel in which. Captain Mitchell embarked, it was very sit for his purpose, and every way well provided ; and his crew, of thirteen English, and ten negroes, sufficient for the navigation. C&ptdipM^tchell himself was a very good Vol. II. 3 R officer,
JOHN CLIFPERTON, 49 * 1722. officer, and, for any thing that appears, v>ts very well wo satisfied with the command to which he was appointed : Neither is there the least intimation, that this scheme of Captain Clipper ton's was censured, even by his own mutinous crew, till the event shewed, that it was unsuccessful: So that, on the who^e, I think the Captain was rather to be commended than condemned for this action, by which he could propose no advantage to himself, but in common with the owners, from the success of the voyage. But it is time to quit' these reflections, in order to come' §0 the last scene of Captain Clippcrton' s life. He sailed in the Success, after she was sold, as a passenger, from Macao to Balavia ; from whence he procured a passage home in a Dutch Eajl-India ship, and arrived, in the beginning of Jttne 1722, at Galivay in Ireland, where he left'hi? family in a very bad state of health, occasioned partly by his great fatigues, but chiefly through the concern he was under for the loss the owners had sustained by this unfortunate voyage. It may. indeed be objected, that, on his arrival in Holland , he ought to have returned thence to London■, and given the proprietors the best account in his power of the undertaking, and of his management. But when we reflect, first, on his sending home their moiety of the profits in the Portuguese ship, which, by the way, very nearly reimbursed the expence they had been at in fitting out the Success , the purchase-money of the ship being taken in, and if we next advert'to the weak condition he was in, when he went to Galivay, where he did not live a week, we may very well excuse him. He might very probably have hoped, that the comfort of seeing his wife and children might contribute to restore his health, and enable him to make a voyage to London , when in a condition, to fettle his accounts 1 or, if he found himself so very low, as absolutely to despair of recovering at all, it was very natural for him to desire the satisfaction of seeing his family in rfis last moments. But, above all, we ought to remember, /
to MAGELLANIC A, &c. 499 that it was not in his power to do more for the propri-1722. etors, than he had done ; and therefore he was at the '-' vW greater liberty to take all the care he could of his private concerns. It is A very easy matter to censure the conduct, blacken the memory, and misrepresent the actions of a poOr man in his grave but, from this plain and faithful account of all his transactions, I dare fay, every impartial reader will agree; that he was an object of pity, rather than resentment; since, after so many and so great hardships, he died at last: of a broken heart, with a broken fortune. The remarks that have been made on the last voyage, have such a relation to this, that, if I was not, as •1 really am, pretty much straitened for room, I should not take up much of the reader's time in observations. A very few remarks are necessary, and I shall make but a few, and such as have a tendency to explain the nature of all expeditions of this kind. In the first place, I shall take notice, that the expence this adventure, though much larger than it need have been, by procuring his Imperial Majesty's commission, and the wasting some money in Flanders , was not excessively great, or such as ought to discourage all future undertakings of this nature-. It was, as the proprietors themselves admit, no mote,than 14,000/. and when it is considered, that two large fine ships were fitted out, capable, in all respects, if their commanders agreed, and done their duty, of combating the whole force of the Spaniards in the South Seas; if, I fay, we consider this, and suffer ourselves at the fame time to remember, that at least as much is spent in a season at Vauxha/l, or Ranelagb , we may justly wonder, that the South Seas do not swarm with Englijh privateers. It is true, there are some French snips gone thither by permission, which may - be of tolerable strength ; but, except these, there is no reason to suspect, that the Spaniards are stronger, than at the time Captain Clipperton made his voyage. Our efforts, during this war, have been chiefly made in the north seas; 9 R 2 and,
6 oo JOHN CLIPPERTON, D 22 ' and, therefore, the Spanijh governors have turned their attention mostly on that side, and, coniequently, the/ neglected this. It must be owned, that Captain Clippers oris voyage proved a great lo;s to his owners, who did not receive above 2000/. for between seven and eight that they laid out: Yet, if we consider, that, notwithstanding his separation from his Consort, and many other unlucky accidents that he met with, he actually secured 6000 I. for his owners, besides 5000 /. lost with Captain Mitchell, and one thousand more, for which the Success was ibid, we shall find, that he made more than a saving voyage of it ■; and that, consequently, if both ships had done their duty, the expedition had been at least as gainful as that of the Duke and Butches, which cost very little more than this, and which produced 7 70,000 pounds, one moiety ofwhich belonged to the proprietors; 'which is sufficient to strew the ill turn that this affair took, ought by no means to discourage us from undertaking such an expedition for the future ; since we can scarce propose any other, that 1 has a prospect of being more advantageous, or less hazardous. I shall next observe, that the (kill-of Captain Clipperton has fully shewn us, that there is nothing extremely dangerous in a voyage to the South Seas. He sailed on the 15th of February, and he entered the Straits of Magellan in the 29th of May, which makes but leventy-three days in the whole, out of which we are to take twenty, that I.e cruised for his Consort at the Canaries, and Cape de Verde 1 stands ; so that we may very well luppofe, that, if the snips had been together, and had met with none of these unlucky accidents, they might in three months have doubled Cape Horn. 1 0 these observations I shall add another, and so conclude. If appears to have been Captain Clipper- ton's intention to have come home,in the Success , instead of felling her as Macao for about half what ihe was worth; and, if he had done this,it is very highly probable, he'had saved all the money which was lost ist
TO MAGELLANICA, & c . 501 in the Portuguese Eafi-Indiaman , and made a tolerable 1722. voyage.- The contrary scheme, of selling, destroying, w-~ and getting home at any rate, appears to have been pursued by Captain Cook, and the stiip's company, ■who, provided they got possession of the shares they had carved out tor themselves, were not in any pain a- bout the interest of the proprietors. This shews how necessary it is to be secure as to the characters of under- officers, before they are employed in expeditions of this nature. A man of a narrow and selfish disposition, who has nothing at heart but the adding to his own fortune by any method, and at any body's expence, will never fail to invent, or to promote, any icheme that seems calculated for his own advantage, though diametrically opposite to the design of the voyage : And the having a spirit or two of this fort, is sufficient to disturb and confound any privateer's crew -, since such are generally made up of men low in birth, mean in understanding, and necessitous in point of fortune, which was the cafe here, as Captain Befagb acknowledges in the account of the voyage, where he professes, that, when they left Plymouth , he was sure the strip's company could not raise 5 /. among them all. It is true, there might be a difficulty in getting many persons of sense, probity, and in tolerable circumstances, to undertake a privateering voyage to the South Seas : But this is what need not be endeavoured ; for tolerable terms, granted to balsa dozen seafaring people, would answer the end, and procure the Captain, or commander in chief, friends enough to support him, whenever he was in the right; for, though it be very easy to seduce the private men by ensnaring speeches, yet it rarely happens, that they plot and execute any wicked design, without the encouragement, or connivance at least, of some of their officers; but, when once they are satisfied, that a party is formed a- mongst them against the Commander in chief, they are always backward in their duty, think every thing that is expected from them a hardship, and are never to
M GEORGE SHELVOCKE, i722.ro be satisfied as to their demands of plunder, &c. As a further proof of this, the reader need only observe, that while Captain Mitchell and Mr. .Davidson were on board, there fell out none of these disputes, none of these mutinies.; but after the unfortunate business at Guam, when Captain Clipperton had made so free with the glass, as not to be able to command when the (hip was in the utmost danger, there was an end of discipline.*, and CGok, who appears to Have been raised on that occasion to a temporary command, by the consent of the ship's crew; invested himself thenceforward with a title and authority of second Captain and -pushed the business of sharing the prize-money, that he might be considered id that quality upon the distribution of the money ; which single ait was the absolute ruin of the voyage. Such untoward influence may one man*s vices have on the fortunes of many. 44444 4*H 44+44 {*444444444444444444444444444444 ARTICLE VIII. SHELVOCKE to Magellanica and the South-Seas . I N the introduction to the former voyage, I have given a large account of the motives on which it was founded *, the original plan of acting under an imperial com million ; the reason why this plan was changed, and Captain Clipperton advanced to the chief command; so that there needs nothing more on that subject here. 1 snail therefore observe, that, according to the new scheme of the voyage, Captain Sbelvocke retained the command of the Speedwell, a (hip of 24 guns, and 106 men ; his lecond Captain was Mr. Simon Hatley, who has a very good character in Captain Rogers 's voyage -" and Mn fVilliam Betagh was Captain of marines. The Captain himself has written an account of the expedition, and therefore 1 have it in my choice to make use of it as far as it is in my power j adding, as occasion
tq MAGELLANIC A, &c. yqz occasion requires, such explanatory circumstances ftx>mtyi 9 * Captain Betagb' s account, as may let tire reader into ,w> ' the whole affair. On the l 3th of February 1719, we failed, fays Captain Shelvocke, in company with the Success, from Plymouth, and kept company together no longer than to the* 19th, when we separated in a hard gale of wind, which was like to prove fatal; how. ver, we happily reached the Canaries, on the 17th of March, where we fold a small prize, we had taken in our rout, for 150 dollars; and, on the 20th, proceeded on our voyage for the coast of Brasil. On the 23d June we arrived at the island of St. Catharine's, on the Brafil cojist, which island is described by Frezier ; here we- wooded and watered, laid in a stock of fresh provisions, and repaired the ship. While the ship lay at St. Catha~ rines's, great distension happened among the crew, and betwixt Capt. Shehccke and some of his officers, which had nigh ruined the expedition ; however, on the 9th August, we left this isiand, and on the 23d September we saw the mountains of Terra del Fuego covered with snow ; after which we were drove by a severe gale, in which we lost our fore top-mast, on the 28th October, to the west of the Straits of Le Maire and the 14th November they had sight of the coast of Chili ; afterwards they arrived at the island of Chiloe , where we supplied ourselves by force with provisions sufficient for four months. Chiloe is the first of the Spanish possessions on the coast of Chili-, and, though it produces neither silver nor gold, is considered by them as a place of very great consequence and for which they would be under much greater concern, when strange ships enter the ports or harbours of it, if they did not confide in the number of its inhabitants, which, for this part of the world, is really very extraordinary ; at which the reader will the less wonder, when he has gone through this description, and finds how sine a place it is. The body of this island, lying in 42 degrees 40 minutes south, is, from north to south, about thirty leagued in
5*04 GEORGE SHELVOCKE, *7*9-in length, but in breadth not above fix or seven v ' r>J leagues. It is watered by several rivers, and produces several kin.Is of useful trees ; and yields an agreeable prospect when you are near it, when one sees the great number of Indians, farms and plantations, which are dispersed at small distances from one another, among the woods, on rising grounds. Within it is formed an Archipelago, which contains more islands than are well known ; the least qf which are said to have many inhabitants, and abound in cattle. Among these, there are very uncertain tides and currents, so violent,, that . it is by no means safe to venture near. I would advise all strangers, who go in at the north end, to keep the island-side of the channel aboard, giving the norther- most point of Chiloe a good birth that is, keeping it at a pretty good distance; which done, run along Ihore to southward, and you will pass by two bays, winch seem to be commodious ; but hold your way till you come to a point, almost contiguous to which is a high rock, somewhat like a pyramid -, pass between this rock and a small high island, which you vy'ill fee year it, and run a little way directly up the harbour, which looks like the entrance of a river, and you will have a safe port to drop your anchor-, but, in going in, take care you do not fall under five fathom water from the shore; for the nearer you advance to the small istand before mentioned, the less water you meet with; therefore keep your lead going, and he bold with the shore towards the north side of the harbour-, when, you are in, you will have the greatest depth, but the southermost fide is shole. I was determined, fays he, to go from hence to the island of Juan Fernandez , as my instructions directed ; and would certainly have done so, but that the ship's company were unluckily possessed with an opinion of mighty advantages that might be obtained by a short trip to the bay of Conception. This was put into their heads by a Frenchman , who persuaded us to go to Chiloe ; and, though that expedition was not over
to MAGELLANICA. S°5 ®ver-advantageous ; yet, as it failed rather through 1719. the faults of our own people, than from any mistakes '-' w in the Frenchman 1 s information, which, on the whole, had answered tolerably well, the crew were still rncii- ned to credit him ; a thing natural enough in a strange part of the world, where we knew not well wnat course to steer, and where he, who had never so little more knowledge than the rest, was sure to be esteemed much wiser than he really was. But the secret, by which this man captivated our company to such a degree, was this:'He flattered them with the hopes of making their fortunes in a very short time, and at a very small hazard. He premised, that he had been there before, and therefore knew what he said 1 and next laid it down as a fact absolutely certain, and not at all to be controverted or called in question, that there were always five or six fail of ships in the road of | Conception , and others daily coming in and going out: j that they had very often, both ways, considerable sums of money and plate, and other valuable things, on board ; that, though they were large ships, they had little or no force ; and that there was no fortification to protect them ; so that, if there were twenty fail, we could not meet any opposition in the taking them all; that their cargo consisted chiefly of corn, wine, brandy, flour, bread, jerked beef; that the ships botfrid to Conception always bring money with them to purchase their cargoes, besides the booty that might be got from rich trading passengers, who carry on a considerable commerce between this port and Buenos sfyres over land ; and that we could not fail of having the ships ransomed, that should fall into our hands, at very great rates insomuch that, if we could but get into Conception before they had any knowledge of us, it was past all doubt, that we should make our fortunes. He therefore advised them to endeavour to prevail upon me to make the best of my way thither: For, though it was certain the governor of Chiloe would fend our deserter to Conception with all imaginable dis- V oh- III. A S patch;
£ o 6 GEORGE SHELVQGKE, 1719- patch -, and that, since it would be two or three months. Wv: journey by land, he would infallibly convey him by sea in some small vessel; and that, if they arrived at Conception before us, the rest of the coast would, in a very small time, be universally alarmed ; by which means we should not have an opportunity left of meeting with any thing, till they had imagined that we had abandoned their seas ; as every body, in those cases, are fond of delivering their sentiments, and as it is impossible to keep a ship's company in so much awe, in so remote a part, as in short voyages n-ar home, every one of my ship's company, who could fay any thing at this juncture, did not fail to speak their minds somewhat insolently. One William Morphew, who was one of those I had out of the Ruby, and had been in these seas several years, took upon him to tell me, that it could not signify much, if we arrive two or three days sooner or later at Juan Fernandez ; that I was a stranger here but that the Frenchman and himself were so well acquainted, that every body hoped I would be advised, and go to Conception: And begged I would not put a mere punctilio of orders in the balance against such a prospect, nay, certainty of success, if we were so happy as to arrive there in time. In short, they all together assured me, that they had the proprietors interest in view, as much as their own ; and that they would perish, before they would injure them in any respect : Rut at the same told me, that, if 1 had not . success in my proceedings, no body could be blamed but myself; intreating me riot to lose this opportunity, wherein they were resolved to stand by roe, and the gentlemen in England, with all fidelity. In our way to Canceptiop,, we made the islands of Mocha and St. Mary .on December 23, and, the fame evening, arrived in the bay of Conception ; but could not be certain that w.e saw any ship in the road : And therefore I immediately gaye orders to man and arm our boats, to go up in the night to surprise whatever vessels might be there; wish strict.orders, if they found any thing too
TO M AGELLANICA, &c. 307 too strong for them, to make it their business to pre- 1719- vent the ships sending any thing ashore, till the wind permitted me to work up to them; which 1 endeavoured ail night long, but to verly little purpose: For, at day light, I could discern nothing above us. Captain Hailev returned about noon in Me pmnace, and informed me, chat he had taken a ship called Salidad d'Auday, which wits the only one there, that was about 150 tons burden-, and being lately come from Baldi- via, had nothing on board, except a few cedar-planks; that there was nobody on board of her, except the boatswain, an old negro, and two Indian boys; and that he had left Mr. Brooks, the first lieutenant, in possession of her, with orders to bring her down the first opportunity. In his return to my ship, he took a small vessel of about twenty-five tons, near the island ■Ouiriquice, (which lies in the harbour) where she had been to take in pears, cherries, and other fruits, for the Conception market. This vessel belonged to a priest, who had been gathering fruits, and was now made a prisoner in her; for, having the curiosity to advance too near my people, in order to discover what they were, he and his cargo unluckily fell into their hands, together with four or five Indians. Immediately after they had taken this, there was another small boat, which came in between the island of Quiriquini and Talgaguana. I perceived by my glass, that she pasted within less than pistol shot of my pinnace, and yet Captain llatley did not engage her; for which he made no other excuse when he came aboard, but that ! he did not mind her, though his boat's crevv all agreed, i that she was full of men. On the 26th, about noon, I Mr. Brooks brought down the ship they had taken, and anchored about half a mile short of us. The botswain of her had not been aboard of us two hours, before he gave an information of a vessel laden with wine, brandy, and other valuable things, bound to the island of Cbiloe , lying at anchor in the bay of Herradura, about two leaugues to the northward of 3 S 2 vs.
5 oS GEORGE SHELVOCKE, 1719-us. Upon this, I ordered Mr. Randall, second lieuto v * w tenant, with the boatswain of the Sallidad , with twenty five men, to go thither in the Mercury , as we called our fruit-bark, with positive orders not to set a foot on shore, or make any hazardous attempt. But, the next evening, they returned with a dismal stor\v viz, that they went into the bay, and found the vessel haled dry ashore ; upon which the officer ordered his people to land, and bring away what they could out of her, whilst himself, and three or four more, kept the bark afloat. When they came up to her, they found her empty ; but, at the fame time, seeing a small house just by the vessel, they began to be of opinion, that the cargo was lodged there: Upon which the officer immediately ordered them up ; so a- way went the poor fellows, with no body at the head of them, without any regard to order, every one endeavouring to be foremost : But their career was soon stopped -, for they had no sooner got upon the bank, than they discovered the enemy rustling furioully upon them. Some of our seamen were of opinion, that they might have made a safe retreat, if they had not been astonished at the very strange manner in which they were attacked, by having a number of horses come up without riders; but, as soon as they heard those behind them, my people bestirred themselves, in order to make the best of-their way to the Mercury 5 by which means, all, except five, escaped ; and these five were taken after they were gotten into siiole-water- It was very fortunate for them, that, by some accident, their vessel was aground ; for otherwise they must have been all cut off. As it was, the Spaniards thought fit to retire as soon as they were within muf- ket-soot, and our people found it then no difficult matter to get the vessel afloat again. The water being now very low, they were obliged, as they went out, to keep near to a point of land, from whence the Spaniards under the slielter of the wood, galled them ; but, the wind being fair, they soon passed it, and, lying all close
to MAGELLANIC A, &c. £°9 close in the bottom of the bark, they had only oneiylp. man wounded, who was shot through thethigh They i- " V " J told me, they perfectly saw the manner how the Spaniards came down -upon them ; viz. that they were preceded by twenty or more horses abreast, linked to each other ; these were two deep ; then came the enemy mounted, and lying upon their horses necks, driving the others along ; and were not once seen to sit upright in their saddles, except when there was no danger, or to fire their muskets. When they had gdt near to my people, they threw out lines, with nooses at the end of them, to catch them ; and accordingly, James Daniel , one of my foremast-men, was infrared, after he had run a good way into the water, but was dragged out again at the rate of ten knots an hour. In short, they are universally dextrous at this; for I have seen a Spaniard bring a man up by the foot as he ran along the deck; and, they fay, they are sure of any thing they fling at, at the distance of several fathoms. These misfortunes and disappointments made my crew extremely uneasy, and might have had very bad consequences, if, when we least expected it, we had not been agreeably surprised by the sight of a lafge strip, which we saw coming about to the northermost point of the island of Quiriquine. It being almost dark, she could not perceive what we were, so that they stood in without fear or apprehension. This sudden appearance put us into no hurry ; for we were always clear, and ready for action ; our launch was immediately manned, to intercept their going ashore, or going to sea again, and my cable was ready to slip, if there had been a necessity for it. As soon as she had approached us. near enough, I haled her; to which they returning no answer, I fired into her; which was no sooner done, than I ordered the launch to put off directly: The enemy, upon this, shortened sail, but kept fast their anchor; and, just as 1 was going to slip my cable, the launch came up with her, and gave her a volley of small arms, and they instantly came to, and called for quarter.
510 GEORGE SHELVGC tE, *719. quarter. It was about two o'clock in the morning he- fore my boat returned to inform me of any news of her, when they brought with them the Spanijh captain, and some of the chief passengers, who acquainted me, that their ship was called the St. Fermin ; that she belonged to, and came last from Callaco ; that she was a- bout 300 tons burden, and had a very small cargo on board, which consisted of sugar, rnelasses, rice, coarse French linen, and some cloths and bays of Quito , together with a small quantity of chocolate, and about 5 or 6000 dollars in money and wrought plate. I sent Mr. Hendrie , the owners agent, on board of her in the Mercury , to inspect: her lading; and to order every thing he could find valuable out of her ; and the ship's company sent their agent likewise. In the afternoon they returned, and brought all the bales, boxes, chests, portmanteaus, &e. that were in her; and also all the rice, with a large quantity of sugar, rnelasses, and chocolate, and about 7000 weight of very good rusk, with all the other eatables and stores. Don Francisco Larrcgan, who was the captain, intreated the liberty to ransom this ship ; which I willingly consented to; and gave him leave to go in his own launch to Conception, with a merchant, who was likewise a prisoner, to raise, the money. In the mean time, we were busied in searching the prize, that nothing might be concealed ; and every body was looked after, by people appointed for that purpose, who examined the pockets; &c. of all such who at any time came from on board the St. Fermin-, and our carpenter was employed in making a slight deck over the Mercury , it being probable, that she would be of great use in coasting along shore. On the 30th, a boat came aboard from the governor, with a flag of trv.ee, and an officer, who acquainted us, that two of the people taken in the last skirmish were alive, but much wounded; he likewise brought a present of seven jars of very good wine, and a letter from the governor Don Gabriel Cano , in which he demanded a fight of my commission, the sending ashore
to MAGELLANIC A, Be. 514 ashore Joseph de la Fontaine , who had been servant to 1720. Captain la J enquire 1 % mate, and some other things, W>J that I thought unreasonable ; with a promise, that, in case 1 complied with them, he would enter into a treaty. To cut matters short, 1 resolved to send Captain Betagb to the Governour, in order to treat by word cf mouth. In the mean time I received other messages, and other letters, from the Governour-, and, at last, a formal treaty was begun, in which 1 demanded 16,000 dollars for the ransom of the St. Fermiu alone, and they offered 12,000 for both the stops and bark: And, while things remained in this situation, the Go- yernour employed all his skill and care to el raw together such a body of men, as might not only free him from any apprehensions of our attempting any thing ashore, but likewise enable him to make some attempt ppon us ; so that, finding all his Spanish pundlo tended to entrap and abuse us, I first set fire to the Solidad-, and then, having first given them time to comply with the proposal I made, 1 next set fire to the St. Fermin, as I had threatened to do, having taken care beforehand to be in a condition to quit the Bay of Conception immediately. Captain Betagb, in his remarks, asserts positively, Captain Hatley chased the bark, which Captain Sbelvocke fays he suffered to escape, till he was within the reach of the enemies guns upon their platform. He informs us likewise, that the cargo ot the St. Fermin was worth about 1500 1. and that the ffwe men out of the Mercury were lost in attempting to take an empty ship. e On the 7th of January 1720, I sailed, says the Captain, to Juan Fernandez-, and, on the 8th, wo observed the sea was perfectly red ; the Spaniards fay, that this was occasioned by the spawn of camarones, or prawns, which, for any thing I know, may be. a mistake. The next day Mr. Steward , the ship's agent, took an account of the prize ; and 1 ordered Mr. Hen- drie , the agent for the owners, to take an account on their behalf. The plunder was fold at the mast, by the s
5ie GEORGE SHELVOCKE, 1720. the ship's agent, at very extravagant prices. Captain Betagk insisted positively, that whatever was not entered in bills of lading, or put on board upon freight, ought to be considered as plunder. This might have occasioned very bad consequences, if I had not referred them to their own articles at St. Katharine's, telling them plainly, that they had gone far enough in these, and that they should not exceed them ; upon which they acquiesced, not a soul seconding Captain Betagh' s motion. The account being taken, and shares calculated, they demanded a division ; which I could not refuse: Accordingly each man had, for prize-money and plunder, after the rate of ten pieces of eight per share, in money or goods. On the nth, at six in the morning, we saw the island- of Juan Fernandez ; at noon, the body of it bore west-south-west, distant five leagues j meridian distance from Conception 2 yy miles west; variation, per amplitude, 6 degrees, 23 minutes east : To the 15th, I kept standing off and on the shore for my boats, which were a-fifhing, who, not having hitherto discovered any marks that Clipperton had been here, sent the Mercury ashore to stop her leaks, while the boats were employed in catching filh, of which we salted as many as silled five puncheons. At length, going on shore to make a nicer search for any thing that might inform us of some news of my consort, some of my men accidentally saw the word Mages, which was .the name of CHpperton's surgeon, and Captain John cut under it, upon a tree, but no directions left, as was agreed on, by him, in his instructions to me : His actions being thus grossly repugnant to his instructions, it was evident, he never meant 1 should ever keep him company, or join with him again. However, being by this confirmed in the certainty of his arrival in those parts, 1 directly made the best of my way from hence, being, with the additional stock of fish caught here, in a pretty good condition as to provisions, and having all our castes filled. On the 21st, having a design to look into Gopiapo, as 1 went along
to MAGELLANICA, & c . 5*13 along slicre, I sent Mr. Bod, second lieutenant of ma- 17 20 * tines, with eight men, as a reinforcement to the Mer- w '"' cury'% crew; and the next evening they left us, steering in for the land, whilst I kept the offing, to prevent our being discovered ftom the shore. I took tare to let the officer have a copy of my corfimission, together with all necessary instructions ; and appointed the moro, or head-land of Copiapo, to be our place of meeting again : Their business was to look into the harbour of that place, which is called Caldera ; near to which there are some gold-mines, and from whence they export that metal in considerable quantities, in smdl vessels-, and the Mercury had this advantage, that, being built in the manner of the country, they could havC no suspicion of her. The next day myself in the ship came in sight of the head land of Copiapo, and lay-to 10 the southward of it, that 1 might not be perceived by the 'port, which lies to the northward. Lying in this posture over-against a small island, which lies athwart the mouth of the river Copiapo , I sent the pinnace to fish between the isle and the continent, and soon after saw a sail crouding towards us she at first appeared to be too big for the Mercury , but proved the same. The officer told me, that he had looked into the port, but could fee no shipping there ; upon which 1 made him sensible of his errour, and sent him to the right place, which was about six leagues to the northward of us; and ordered him to be ready to look into Caldera by day light. The next morning, as soon as they Were gone, the pinnace returned with nothing but a few penguins, which they had taken on the island, which abounds with them ; the Mercury had looked into the Caldera the next morning, and saw nothing ; but, instead of making use of the land-wind to come off to me, they kept along shore, in the bottom of the bay, till the sea-breeze came in so strong, that they were very near losing their vessel on a lee-shore, and could not come to me till the morning ; by which they hindered me almost a whole day and night's Jfail- Vol. 111. 3 T ing,
5,4 george shelvocke, 1720.ing, which was more than our circumstances could di£ pense with. On the 27th, I sent Mr. Brooks, the first lieutenant, and Mr. Rainor, first lieutenant of marines, to relieve Mr. Randal, and Mr. Dod, in the Mercury. I had fitted her up with a gang of oars; and, upon trial, they gained way, after the rate of three knots, which might render her extremely beneficial and useful to us in a calm. February 5, I dispatched Mr. Brooks a- head, to discover if there were any shipping at Arica , in the latitude of 18 degrees, 20 minutes south. The next day, at one in the afternoon, (after having ranged along shore by the breaks of Pisagua, Camarones , and Vitor , ) I had a sight of the head-land of Arica, and the island of Guano, with a ship at anchor on the northefn side of it, and saw the Mercury standing out of the bay ; by which 1 judged the ship was too warm for her, and therefore made all possible haste to get up to her With my ship. When we came.into the port, we found the ship had been already taken, and that the Mercury was accidentally adrift. This prize was called the Rosario, of the burden of one hundred tons, laden with cormorants dung, which the Spaniards called Guana, and make use of it for manuring the land which produces the codpepper, of which they make a vast profit in the vale of Arica. There was not in this ship one white face, except the pilot, whom I resolved to send ashore, to see if the owners would ransom the ship, knowing that the cargo was worth gold to them, though it was downright dung to us : and the event verified my conjecture. The next morning 1 received a letter from the owner, wherein, after insisting pitifully on his distress and poverty, as well as his having a large family to provide tor, he promised to meet us at Hilo , or at Qua co, in order to treat for a ransom : This letter was signed Miguel Diez Gonzales. Soon after, we took a small vessel, of ten tons burden, with a cargo of dried fish and guana, lying within a mile of the town. By this time All the adjacent country was in arms, and drew down in
to MAGELLANIC A, &c. 515 in great numbers to the coast, well mounted and arm-1720. ed, and, to all appearance, well disciplined. Howe- ver, to make trial of their courage, and, indeed, to give my own people spirits, by (hewing them what fort of an enemy they had to contend with, I ordered the Mercury and launch to advance towards the Ihore, as if I had really intended to make a descent, though the landing-place is altogether impracticable there, at least to European embarkations. I likewise canonaded the town very briskly, and, though the balls did not do execution, yet they plowed up the sand before the Spanijh line of horse, and threw it all over them ; but neither this, nor the approach of my small-craft, made any sort of impression, but they remained firm, and shewed, at least, the countenance of as good troops as could be wished for, to my very great disappointment, since it shewed my people, that the Spaniards were far from being such cowards as they were represented. The merchant that wrote to me in the morning, came on board as soon as it was dark; and, having reason to believe him perfectly honest, but streight- ened in his circumstances, I agreed on restoring to him his ship, and six negroes, for iyoo pieces of eight, with this reservation, that I would have every thing out of her that might be useful to us. In short, he was so punctual, and so expeditious, that at ten the next night he brought the sum agreed for; viz. 1300 dollars weight in ingots of virgin-silver, which the Spaniards call Pinnas, and the rest in pieces of eight j for which I restored him his ship and Negroes. This gentleman made a great inquiry after Englijh commodities, and offered great prices for them, complaining, that the French only supplied them with paltry things;, and trifles, for which they ran away with many millions ; and asked, whether all the Engltjh merchants were asleep, or grown too rich, since, notwithstanding their ports were not so open as in other parts of the world, yet they knew how to manage matters very well; and that their governours, being generally Europeans, whose stay in the country seldom exceeds 3 T 2 > above
516 GEORGE SHELVOCKE, 1720. above three years, they made use of any means to im- l> ^ vvJ prove their time ; and that there were ways of gaining them so far, as to make them ad very obligingly ; Much more he said, as to the blindness of the Englijhy who had suffered the French pedlars to carry on, uninterrupted, the most considerable branch of"commerce in the world. Before he took his leave, he desired me to carry his ship to sea with me two or three leagues, and then turn her adrift: The intent of which was, to deceive the Governour, and the King's officers: and told me farther, that If 1 would meet him at Hilo, which was about twenty-five leagues to the north-westward, he would purchase what little coarse merchandize we had, which might be done there with all imaginable privacy : The master also ot the small boat came off upon a baste, which is an odd sort of embarkation, made of two large seal steins, separately blown up like bladders, and then made fast, and joined together by pieces of wood ; on this he brought off two jars of brandy, and forty pieces of eight, which, considering his mean appearance, was as much as 1 could have expected. One part of his freight was valuable, which was a good parcel of exceikno-dried tsth. As soon as i got out of the road of Aica, coninues Capt. Shclvccke , I soaped my course for the road of Hilo, insight of which we came in the afternoon, where we saw a large ship, and three small ones, at anchor : the great, lhip immediately hoisted French colours, and proved to be the Wife Solomon , of forty guns, commanded by Mr. Dumain, who was now resolved to protect the vessels that were with him, and obstruct my coming in.' It being dark before 1 could get into the road, I sent my third lieutenant, Mr. La Porte, who was a Frenchman , to let him know who we were ; but my officer had no sooner got into the soip, than they tumbled him out again,'calling him renegade; and sent me word, that, if I offered to anchor there, they would sink me. Mr. La Porte , upon this, told me, that to his knowledge, the French soips had often taken Spanish commissions, at such times as there
to MAGELLANIC A, &c. 517 there were Englijb cruisers on those coasts ; as a recom-1720- pense for which service, they had great liberties al- W 7 J lowed them in the way of trade. He farther assured me, that he could plainly fee, that Mr. Dimain had double manned his strip with the inhabitants of the town, who were partly French ; and that, in short, he designed to be with me as soon as the wind came off shore. While we were talking this matter over, the Frenchman fired several guns at us, to shew they were ready, and designed to be with us speedily. I must confess, this heated me not a little ; and the first thing that occurred to me, was turning the Mercury into a fireship, by the help of which 1 might, without any great difficulty, have roasted this insolent Frenchman. But, reflecting on the situation of things at home, and fearing that, however unwarrantable his conduct might be, my attacking him might be thought as unjustifiable, I thought it best to stand out of the harbour, which accordingly I did. On February 12, the moiety of the money taken at Arica was divided amongst the ship's company, according to the number of their shares. On the 22d, we found ourselves in the height of Calao, which is the port of Lima ; upon which I furled all my fails, to prevent being seen, resolving to get away in the night ; because, if we had been discovered from thence, we were morally certain of being pursued by some of the Spansfi men of war that are always in that harbour. On the 26th, the'officers in t the Mercury desiring to be relieved, 1 spoke co Captain Hatley , whose turn it was to command her. As this gentleman had been for a long time priloner among the Spaniards, he knew the country perfectly well; and having travelled between Lima and Payta by land, he had observed several rich towns ; which put it into his head, that something might be made of cruising along that coast, as far as the island of Lcbos , which lies in the latitude of 7 degrees south ; and 1, as it was very natural for me to do, approved of this proposals the rather because it was extremely probable they might meet with some of the Panama ships, which always fall in
Zi 8 GEORGE SHELVOCKE. 1 7 2 °-.in with the land winds. As the whole ship's company seemed to be extremely delighted with Captain Hat- ley's project, I judged it requisite to augment their complement of men, put a month's provision on board, mounted two quarter-deck guns on the Mercury , lent Captain Hatley my pinnace, give him a copy of my instructions though it was very likely, that I should have frequent sight of the Mercury , between the time of our separation and our coming to the island of Lobos , where was our rendezvous, and not above sixty leagues from us. As soon as every thing was ready for their departure, Captain Betagh , whose turn it was to relieve the marine officer in the Mercury , being unwilling to go, went amongst the people and, with a frightful countenance, told them, that he, and the rest that were to go with him, were sent for a sacrifice. Upon this, I addressed-myself to the ship's company; and asked them, if ever they heard me call upon any particular person by name to go on an enterprise, but left it to every man's choice to go out of the ship upon a- ny service ; and, in a word, desired to know who a- mong them were of Betagh' s opinion : Upon this, they with one voice declared that they had never entertained any such thoughts; but, on the contrary, l should find them obedient to any command I should lay upon them. This done, I ordered the Mercury a- long-side, and acquainted her crew with the speech Betagh had made in the ship ; and desired to know, if any of them were under any apprehensions of being fold or sacrificed : At which they set up an huzza, and begged that they might go on the intended cruise in the Mercury. Accordingly, Hatley and Betagh went on board of her, put off from us, gave me three chears, and stood right in for the land. I think it will not be altogether improper to take notice of their proceedings after they left me, as I have been informed by themselves and by prisoners ; viz. The very next day they took a small bark, laden with rice,' chocolate, wheat, flour, &c. and the day following another ; on the 4 th day, they became masters of a ship Of
to MAGELLANIC A, &?*. 5 i of near 200 tons, and 150,000 pieces of eight. Flushed 1720 with this Succeis, Betagh prevailed on Hatley , and the greatest part of the people with them, not to join me . again; telling them, that they had sufficient to appear like gentlemen as long as they lived, but that it would be nothing when the owners parts were taken out, and the remainder divided into 500 shares : And therefore he thought, since fortune had been so kind to them, they would be highly to blame, if they did not lay hold of this opportunity of going to India since they had provisions, and every thing they could Wish for irf 1 their voyage, and the happiness, into the bargain, of I having a gentleman amongst them, Captain Hatley., j who was, doubtless, able to conduct them to some j part of the coasts of Asia. This was soon resolved on, and they fell to leeward of the place of rendezvous. But Hatley , weighing within himself the vast run, and the many hazards of the undertaking, and knowing well what treatment he should find in India , if his treachery was discovered, could not readily determine what he had best do in this cafe, but kept hovering on the coast ; and, in the interim, some of his crew went away with his boat to surrender themselves to the enemy, rather than be concerned in such a piratical action. But Betagh and his gang still kept Hatley warm in liquor, and, in the end, brought him to a sixt reso- i lution of leaving these seas. But no sooner had they : clapped their helm-a-weather, than they saw a fail standing towards them, which, in short, proved to be a Spanifo man of war, who caught them, and spoiled their India voyage. The English were treated very indifferently ; but Betagh , who was of their religion, and of a nation which the Spaniards are very fond of, was made an officer, and used very respectfully. On the 29th in the morning, we saw a sail at anchor in the road of Guanchaco ; at 11, we came up, and anchored j along-side of her : There was no body on board of her | but two Indian men and a boy : She was called the | Carmafita, of about 100 tons, and had poshing in her ! but
GEORGE SHELVOGKE, 1720. but a little timber from Guiaquil , from whence she Iatc- ly came. By these prisoners I was informed, that thertz was a rich stiip in the cove of Payta , who put in there to repair some damages she had sustained by a gale of wind: Upon which I immediately went to sea ; but, in purchasing the anchor, the cable parted, and I lost it. I took my prize with me, she being new and well- fittedj and like to soil well: 1 called her the St. David, and designed to have made her a complete fire-ship as soon as the Mercury joined us, who had materials on Board of her for that purpose. The next day I looked into Cheripe, fro n whence I chased a small vessel, of which when I came within a canon-shot, the fcrew ran her on shore. The next morning, finding myself in the neighbourhood of the island of Lcbos , where I had appointed our rendezvous with the Mercury , I sent Mr. Randall , my second lieutenant, ashore, with two letters in two bottles, directing Captain Hatley to follpw Us to Payta , towards which port I now made the best of my way ; and, on March 8, found myself before it j and sent Mr. Randall to look into the cove, in order to bring us an account what ships were there, that we might know what to think of the information we had received, There is scarce a circumstance in all this account, which Captain Betagb does hot only dispute, but deny. As to the Mercury , on board which they were sent to cruise, he observes, that she was a flat-bottomed vessel, that would neither row nOr soil, and in short, ah absolute lighter. He says next, that the course they were directed to steer, was exactly,in the track of the enemy ; lo that he really judged it to be the Captain's design he should be taken ; and he likewise admits, that upon his hinting this to the purser, Captain Sbehocke called up all hands, and discoursed them in the manner beforementioned. With regard to prizes, he admits the taking of two, one a bark, the other an old English pink, bound from Panama to Lima-, which, instead of having 150,000 dollars on board, after they had examined
to MAGELLANIC A, C?c. 521 jaiined hor very closely, did nor appear to have oni/2.°- board her so much as a single half-crown, the vessel being bound in her ballast with a small parcel of pedlary ware from Panama to Lima whereas, had she been going from Lima to Panama , she might probably have had a considerable sum on board. We went into this prize immediately, leaving only a hand or two to take care of xht Mercury, fays Captain Hatlcy ; and were soon after taken by one of the Spanijb cruisers, called the Brilliant , of thirty guns, as we were plying between Lobes and Cape Blanco, having been twice on shore in this island, without being able to discover a- fsy signs of our Captain's having been there, much less jneeting with any instructions to join him at Payta. As to the persuading Captain Hatleyto go to India , and all that depends upon that story, Captain Betagh denies it utterly ; affirms, that, though he was brought up a papist, he became a protestant so soon as he came to years of discretion ; that he never was in the Spanijh service; though he owns he was very kindly treated by Don Pedro Midrdnda , Admiral of the fouth- seas, on account of Mr. Betagh's having some knowledge of Sir Charles IVager , to whom Don Pedro thought himself excessively obliged. As the author of this history, I do not pretend to enter at all into the discussion of these points : 1 only report facts as I find them, and leave it intirely to the reader's judgement, who was, and who was not, in fault. I proceed now with the voyage, as it is represented by Captain Sbelvoke, whom we left beating up for Payta. On the 21 st, says he, I came within seven leagues of the place; and, steering directly for it, entered the cove of Payta, about four in the afternoon, with French colours, there being a small strip in the harbour, of which Mr. Brooks, my first lieutenant, soon became master, being sent in with the launch well manned for that purpose. About seven in the evening, 1 came to an anchor about three quarters of a mile from the town: The taking of Payta being in the scheme of Y%.III. 3 U out
'§22 GEORGE SHELVOCKE, *720. our voyage treated as a matter of great importance, f '•'V'J consulted my officers concerning the properest methods of doing it. The town appeared to be indifferently large and populous ; and it was very probable there might be fame land forces, to defend a place so well known as this, which is the rendezvous of strips coming from Panama and Calao: However, I landed with forty-six men at two of the clock the next morning, leaving Mr. Coldsea , the master, and some others, not only to look after the negroes we had, who ought not to be trusted with the ship by themselves, but also to, bring the ship nearer in, that we might the more ex- peditiously embark what plunder we might get. Being now ashore, 1 marched up to the great church without meeting any opposition ; and, indeed, found the town intirely deserted by the inhabitants. At daylight, we saw great bodies of men on the hills on each side of us, who, I expected, would have paid us a visit, but found, as we marched up the hill ' towards them, we drove them before us. All this time, we took no prisoners, except an old Indian and a boy, vho told me, Captain Clipperton had been here, sometime before, to set prisoners ashore ; who assured them that he would do them no injury, nor give them any trouble. But the inhabitants, not thinking sit to trust him, had removed their effects up the mountains, a- mongst which was part of the king's treasure, amounting to 400,000 pieces of eight, which would have been a fine booty, had Captain Ciippericn thought fit to have accepted of it ; since it is certain, he would have met with no more difficulty in subduing this place, than I did : But suddenly, upon bearing a guh fired, I halted; and, word being brought me, that the ship was ashore, I hurried off with some precipitation, carrying with us the union stag, which I had caused to be planted in the church-yard ever sincelun-rif- jng. As we reimbarked, the enemy came running drwn the hills hallowing after us: When I came on board, I sound her intirely afloat, but within her breadth
to M AG E L L AN I G A, &c. 523 Weadth of the rocks the water being smooth, I soon 1720. warped her off again; after which, we returned to take possession of the town in the manner we had done before, and the Spaniards as peaceably fetired up the hills again. But this accident being happily over, the remainder of the day was spent in shipping off what plunder we had got, which consisted in hogs, fowls, brown and white calavances, beans, Indian corn, wheat, flour, sugar, and as much cocoa-nut as we were able to stow away, with pans and other conveni- encie's for preparing it; so that we were supplied with breakfast-meat for the whole voyage, and full of provisions of one kind or other. In the afternoon, there came a messenger to know what I would take for the ransom of the town and ship ; to which I answered, that I would have 10,000 pieces of eight, and those to be paid within twenty-four hours, if he intended to save the town, or ship either. At eight the next morning, I received a letter from the Governor, signifying that, as I wrote in French , neither he, nor any about him, could understand the contents ; but, if I would let him know my demands in Latin or Spanish-, I should not fail of a satisfactory answer. In the afternoon, I sent one of the quarter-deck guns ashore ; which, being mounted at our guard, was fired at sun-set, midnight, and break of day. The next morning early the ' messenger returned, and brought with him the Captain of the ship 1 had taken ; and, as soon as I had heard of their arrival, 1 went on shore to know what they had to propose. 1 very soon understood from them, that the Governour was determined not to ransom the town at all events; and that he did not care what 1 did to it, provided the churches were not burnt: To which I answered, that I should have no regard to churches, or any thing else, when 1 set the town on fire; though, in fact, I never designed to destroy any place consecrated to divine worship. As for the Captain of the vessel, I told him plainly, that, if he did not ransom her immediately,he might expect to see her in flames. 3 U 2 This
524 GEORGE SHELVOCKE, 1720 This seemed to make as great an impression upon hir/i '~^ rJ as I desired ; and he promised, in three hours time, to be down with the money. As soon as I had givert these people the hearing, I battled every thing to be taken out of the town-, that could be of any use to us y and, when this was done, I ordered it to be set on fire in two or three places at once5. and, as she houses were eld and dry, the place became a bonfire instantly. Ire the midst of this conflagration, the people on board my ship made continual signals tor me to come on board, and kept firing perpetually towards the mouth of the harbour. As I could only guess, from these appearances, that something extraordinary had happened, the sole measure left for me to take, was to get on board as soon as I could, which accordingly I did, in a canoe, with only three men on board with me. It was evident enough to me,- before I reached my strip what had thrown my people into such a panic ; for I saw a large strip lying, with her fore-top-sail a- back, with her Spanish flag flying at her top-mast head; at which sight two of my three men were ready to faint; and, if it had not been for my botswain, I doubt whether 1 should have got on board the strip. When I looked back to the town, 1 could not help wishing I had not been so hasty, since, had the Spanijh Admiral acted with vigour, he had taken the ship long enough before I could have gotten on board. In justice to Mr. Goldfea the master, I must observe, that he tired so smartly on the Spaniard as he came in, that he put him upon taking those precautions, which, had he known our strength, were very unnecessary ; and, as this took up time, it gave me an opportunity of coming on board. In the mean time, my officers ashore were so unwilling to leave behind them a gun we had mounted so the town, that they spent so great a space in-' getting into the boat, that I began to be much afraid the enemy would have attacked us, before the launch could have rowed aboard. But he was not in such a hurry, thinking that-1 could not well pass by him, and therefore
t 6 MAGELLANIC A, & c . 525 therefore suffered my men to come off, who were a-172^ bout fifty in number ; but was within less that pistol shot of us, before they had all got into the ship. Upon which, we cut our cable, and, our ship falling the wrong way, I had but just room enough to fall clear of him. Being now close by one another, his formidable appearance struck an universal damp on every one's spirits. Some of my people, in'coming off, were for jumping into the water, and swimming ashore, as some actually did ; for now, when they law a fine Europe- built ship of fifty guns, the disproportion was so great between us,- that there could be no hopes of escaping him, being under his lee. I endeavoured to get into shole water ; but he becalmed and confined me for the greatest part of an hour, handling me very roughly with his canon -, but made little use of small arms. He never had patience to let us be quite along his side; but, whenever he was ready with his fire, he gave his ship the starboard-helm, to bring as many of his guns as he could to bear on us, and, at the same time, kept me out of the true wind. We made the briskest returns We could : but the misfortune was, that, in the precipitate confusion in getting off from the town, most of our small arms were wet; so that it was late before they were of any use. There was, during this, a confused scene ashore, of the town on fire, and the people who had flocked down the hills to extinguish it, some of whom answered the end of their coming, whilst cithers were employed in beholding the engagement. I was long in despair of getting away from the Spaniard , and could foresee nothing, but that we should be torn in pieces, by him, unless we had an opportunity of trying our heels with him whilst our masts were standing. I expected every minute they would board us ; and- upon hearing an hallowing amongst them, and their forecastle full of men, I concluded they had come to a resolution of entering us: but I presently saw the occasion of these acclamations was, their having soot down our ensign-staff, upon which they were in hopes we had struck ;
K2S GEORGE SHELVOCKEs. * 7 2 °- struck ; but I soon undeceived them, by spreading d v ' v ' J new ensign on the mizen-fhrowds; upon sight of which they lay as snug as before, and held their way close on our quarter., Intending at last to do our business at once, they clapped their .helm a starboard, in order to bring their whole broadside to point on us ; but their sire had very little effect, and it muzzled themselves ; which gave us an opportunity of getting away from them. This was certainly.a lucky escape, after an engagement for about three glasses with an enemy so much superiour; for he had fifty-six guns; we but twenty mounted; they had 450 men, we, on our part, did not exceed seventy-three* and eleven negroes and two Indians included in that number: He had further this vast odds over us, of being in a settled readiness, whilst we were in the utmost .distraction. Add to all this, our lmall-arms being useless, by being wet; and in the middle of the engagement, one-third of my people, instead of fighting, were hard at work to make a further preparation for an obstinate resistance -, particularly the carpenter, and his crew, were busied in making ports for stern chase-guns, which (as it happened) we made no use of. Yet we were not altogether unhurt ; the loss of my boat and anchor was irreparable, and may be said to be the cause of that scene of trouble, which followed •, for we had now but one anchor, that at Payta being the third we had lost ; and were intirely destitute of a boat of any kind. I have been since informed, that we placed some shots very well, and that we killed and wounded several of the enemy. In the evening, I, with much ado, flipped away from the Brilliant , the Admiral's consort, on board of which was Betagh , who desired he might have the honour to board me first; and this escape I made with difficulty enough, and found myself, when at liberty, in a very uncomfortable condition; for we had not the least hopes now, or at least any certainty, of meeting with the Success ; so that we had little good to expect from
to MAGELLANIC A, 6c, 52% from friends. As to our enemies again, '1 was inform- 1720^ ed at Payta, that they had laid an embargo of five or fix months so that we had nothing to expect on that side. A third misfortune was, that I saw our prize, which I intended for a fireship, taken by the Brilliant , and therefore had all the reason in the world to expect, they had perfect information of all our designs. Add to these mischiefs, that I had but one anchor, and no boat at all; and it will not be wondered, that I gave up all views on the town of Guiaquil , where I proposed to have made an attempt, having certain intelligence, that several ships of considerable value lay in that river, by dint of the embargo, which, if I had been better provided, would, in this cafe, have done me a service. In this situation, I called my officers together* to let them know, that it was my sentiment that we had much better go to windward, since, in spite of all their embargoes, the Spaniards must carry on their trade with Chili ■, after which, I proposed watering at Juan Fernandez , arid then cruising out the whole season on the Conception , Falparaiso , and Ccquimbo traders, amongst whom we should be stocked with anchors, cables, boats, and a vessel to make a firesliip of; on which I mightily depended, since I could fee but little probability of joining the Success. I also proposed, before I left the coast of Chili, to make the town of La Serena or Ccquimbo. This being universally approved of, we got our tacks aboard, and stretched to windward. My intention, after this, was for the coast of Mexico , there to run to the height of the 7 m Marias and California , as the most likely place to meet the Success-, both of which places would have been commodious, the first for salting turtles, and the last for wooding and watering. There I should also be ready in the season to lie in the track of the Manilla ship ; which, if I should have the fortune to meet, (having a fire- ship,) I would have tried what I could have done with her; but, if I could not have prevailed, I must have contented myself with cruising on the Peruvian ships, : • which
5 2 % GEORGE SHELVOCKE, 1720. which bring silver to Acapnlco , to purchase the Indian w '-' and Chinese commodities, which the Manilla ships bring thither. On the 26th, we secured our masts, and bent a new suit of sails, and stood to the southward, expecting to gain our passage in about five weeks. The day after, the carpenter began to build a boat to water the strip. On the 31st, as we were pumping the ship, the water came out of the well, not only in a greater quantity than usual, but also as black as ink ; which made me judge, that some water carny at our powder and accordingly, going into the powder-room, 1 heard the water come in Ijke a little sluice, whjch had quite spoiled the greatest part of our powder ; so that we only saved the quantity of six barrels, which I ordered to be stowed away in the bread-room. It pleased God, that we had fair weather j otherwise it would have been an hard matter for us to have kept ourselves above water. We found the leak to be on the larboard-side, under the lower cheek of the head, occasioned by a shot, which had lodged there ; which, falling out, left room for a stream of water. We . brought the ship by the stern, and, with great difficulty, stopped it securely. At this time, we had a large, stock of provisions, and every one lived as well as he could have wished, each man having a quart os chocolate, and three ounces of very good rusk, for breakfast every morning, and fresh meat or fresh fish every day, of which we had such a plenty, about the ship, that we could almost always take our choice of dolphin or albicore. On May 6 , we made the westermost of the islands of Juan Fernandez , the body of it being north-east by north, distant twelve leagues; and the day after, the carpenters completed the boat, which, would carry three hogsheads. On the nth, wq saw. the great island of Juan Fernandez , bearing east half south, by observation the body of it lying in the latitude of 33 degrees, 25 minutes south: A joyful sight at that time, though so unfortunate to us afterwards. In Captain Betagtf s account, the going to Juan Fernandez
to MAGELLANICA, &c. 5*9 nandez is represented as a direct design to lose the sliip, 1721. and so cruize for the future in a bottom, to which, in , their judgment, the owners had no title. 1 must, for my own part, acknowledge, that 1 cannot understand this, because, in a bark built out of the remains of the Speedwell , they were as much in an owner's bottom, as in the (hip herself; and, if they could imagine this would be obviated by taking and cruising in another (hip, then he might as well have quitted the Speedwell , under pretence of the leak, and gone to sea in a prize, without the hazardous experiment of the shipwreck. Captain Betagh mentions the suspicions of the seamen, as direct evidence of the fact -" that they looked for it, and expected it would fall out, just as it really did. It is also suggested by Captain Betagh , that abundance of things of value were brought on shore, without their knowing how; which is another thing I cannot comprehend for Captain Shelvocke , and his son, could not carry a vast quantity on (hore themselves ; and it is very plain to me, that there was not a single man in the (hip, who, if he had been trusted with so dark a secret, would not have discovered it. But to proceed with the Captain's relation : I plied, fays he, off and on till the 2tst ; but could not get so much water as we daily expended; which made me think it requisite to anchor in the road for a few hours : And, in order to it, I prepared twenty tuns of calks to raft ashore ; then worked in, and anchored in forty fathoms water, and made a warp, which was of the length of three haulers and an half, which, being made fast to the rock, kept the (hip steady, and gave us an opportunity of haling our raft of casks ashore and aboard. The next morning, we were ready to go to sea; but had no opportunity of doing so for four days together, during which we anchored in the fame manner. On the 25th, an hard gale of wind came out of the sea upon us, and brought in a great tumnling swell; so that, in a few hours, our cable Vol. III. 3 X parted;
530 GEORGE SHELVOCKE, 1721. parted : A dismal accident this, there being no means to be used, or the least prospect of avoiding immediate destruction. But Providence interposed in our behalf so far, that, if we had struck but a cable's length farther to the eastward or westward of the place where we did, we must have inevitably perished. As soon as she touched the rock, we were obliged to hold fast by some S art or other of the ship, otherwise the violence of the rocks fire had in striking might have been sufficient to have thrown us all out of her into the sea. Our main-' mast, fore-mast, and nrizon-mast, went all away together. In short, words are wanting to express the wretched condition we were jrg or the surprize we were under of being unfortunately shipwrecked. In the evening, all the officers came to bear me company, and to contrive to get some necessaries out of the wreck ; and, having lighted a fire, wrapped themselves up in what they could get, lay round it, and notwithstanding the coldness of the weather, slept very soundly, I would have set the people to work in doing what we proposed the night before; but they were so scattered, that there was no such thing as getting them together : So that all opportunities were lost of regaining any thing but some of our fire-arms.' But, while they were employed in building tents, and making other preparations to settle themselves here, the wreck was entirely destroyed, and everything that was in her lost, except one cask of beef, and one of Farina de Pao y which were washed.whole oh the strand. Thus were our provisions of all forts irrecoverably gone, and whatever else might have been of use to us, except what I have already mentioned. I should have observed, that I saved i t oo dollars belonging to the gentle- men-owners, which were kept in my chest in the great cabin. The reft, being in the bottom'of the bread- room for security, could not be come at. ' I took some pains in finding a convenient place to set up my tent, and at length found a commodious spot of ground, not
to MAGELLANICA, &c. 531 hot half a mile from the sea, and a fine run of water 1721. within a stone's cast of each fide of it, with firing near W ' J at hand, and trees proper for building our dwellings. The people settled within call about me, as well as they could and, having a cold season coming on, some of them thatched theirs, and others covered them with (kins of seals and sca-lions, whilst others got tip water buts, and slept in them, under the cover of a tree. Having thus secured ourselves, as well as possible, against the inclemency of the approaching winder, we tiled so pass our time in the evening in making a great fife before my tent, round which my officers in general assembled, Irmploying themselves quietly in roasting crayfish on the embers; sometimes bewailing our unhappy state, and sinking into despair : at other times seeding ourselves up with hopes, that something might be done to set Us afloat again. 1 consulted first with the carpenter, who answered, that he could not make brick without straw; and walked away from me in a surly humour, from him I went to the armourer, whom 1 sound at the wreck, and asked him, what he could do for us in his way, that might contribute towards the building of a small vessel. To which he answered, he hoped he could do all the iron-work, that Was necessary for such a thing-, that he had, with much labour, gotten his bellows out of the wreck, with Four or five fpadoes, which would afford them steel and that there could be no want of iron along the Ihore ; and that he did not doubt, but we should find a great many useful things, when we came to set to work in good earnest; and desired 1 would, without loss of tin e, order some charcoal to be made for him, whilst he set up his forge. Upon which I called all hands together, and gave it them as my opinion, that there was a great probability we should be able to effect the building a vessel to transport us; but that it Would Undoubtedly be a laborious task, and would require the utmost endeavours from them all ; and put the question to them, whether we should make a be- 3X2 pinning,
532 GEORGE SHELVOCKE, 1 7 i t - ginning, or no. To which they, with one voice, con- w-J fented, and promised to be extremely diligent in work; and begged me to give them instructions how to proceed. 1 then ordered those, who were wooding before the ship was lost, to bring in their axes, that I might fend them to cut wood to make charcoal, while the rest went down to the wreck, to get the bowsprit a- stiore, of which 1 intended to make the keel; and prevailed on the carpenter to go with me, to fix on the properest place to build upon. In a word, the people found a great many useful materials about the wreck, and, amongst the rest, the top-mast, which, being made fast to the main-mast, was washed ashore, and, though of no small weight, would not, at this time, have been exchanged for gold. On June 8, we laid the blocks to build upon, and had the bowsprit ready at hand. The carpenter, suddenly turning short upon me as I stood by him, swore an oath, he would not strike another stroke upon it; that he, truly, would be nobody's stave ; and thought himself now upon a footing with myself. I was ac first angry ; but at last came to an agreement to give him a four-pistole-piece as soon as the stern and stern- post were up, and 100 pieces of eight, when the bark was finished ; and the money to be committed to the keeping of any one he should name till that time. Upon this, he went to work on the keel, which was to be thirty feet in length, her breadth by the beam sixteen feet, and seven feet deep in the hold. In two months time we made a tolerable strew, which was, in a great measure, owing to the ingenuity of Popplejlon , my armourer, who did not lose a minute's time frym the work of his hand, and the contrivance of his head. This assiduity of his, I dare fay, was greatly owing to the just sense he had of our forlorn state, with which he seemed to be much affected. This man made us a little double-headed mallet, hammers, chisels, files, and a fort of gimblets, which performed very well; nay, he even made a bullet-mould, and an instrument
to MAGELLANIC A, 6-r. £33 instaiment to bore our cartouch-boxes, which we 1721. made of the trucks of gun-carriages, which were wash- V " V ' J ed ashore, (these we covered with feel-skins, and contrived so as to be both handy and neat) ; and had enabled himself to perform any iron-work the carpenter wanted; and did not only do us this service in this way, but also began and finished a large serviceable boat, which was what we stood much in need of. But I must observe, that, in the beginning the people behaved themselves very regularly, half of them working one day, and half another, and seemed to be easier and easier under our misfortunes every day. They treated me with as much regard as I could wish, and, in a body, thanked me for the prospect they had of a deliverance. 1 never failed to encourage them by such stories of things or actions that I heard to have been done by the number of men in distresses of this kind ; and always pxessed them to stick close to the work, that we might get the bark ready in time; and told them, that to our comfort, we had three of the best ports in Chili within 120 leagues of us. This instilled new life into them ; and they often declared, that they would do their utmost to finish her with all expedition, which was a most agreeable hearing. But, instead of enjoying peace long, we became a prey to faction so that it was a miracle, that we got off from this place by any endeavours of our own: for, after they had gone thro' the most laborious part of the work, they entirely neglected it; and many of my officers deserted my conversation, to herd with the meanest of the ship's company. I was now confirmed in the suspicion I had some time before, that there was a black design in embryo-, for, when I met by chance any of my officers, if I asked them, what they were about, and why they would act so contrary to their duty, as to divert the people from their work, one would answer, that he did not know whether he should go off the island, or no, if my bundle of boards was ready and others told me, that they did not care how matters went -, they could so iff
5Z4 GEORGE SHELVOGK^, 1721. shift for themselves, as well as the rest. And, when W ' J I spoke with the meaner sort, some would be surly, and say nothing; others would be staves to no-body; but would do as the rest did. In the midst of these confusions, I ordered my son to secure my commission on some dry place of the wood or rocks, if such could be found ; for I well remembered hoW Damper had been served in these seas. At length I, one afternoon, missed all the people, and could fee nobody, but Mr. Adamson , surgeon, Mr. Hendry the agent, and my son, and Mr. Dod, lieutenant of marines, who, for some reasons best known to himself, had feigned lunacy. I could not devise what could have become of them all; but at night was informed; that they had assembled at the great tree, to consult together; where they had formed a new regulation, and new articles, whereby they excluded the gentlemen-adventurers in England from having any part of what we Ihould take for the future; and divested me of the authority of their captain ; and had regulated themselves according to Jamaica-&\{z\- jstine. The chief officers, among the rest, had chosen one Morphew to be their champion and speaker. This man addressed himself to those that Were present, to acquaint them, " That they were now their own ma- " sters, and servants to none; that although Mr. Shcl- " vocke , their former captain, took upon him to cam- " mand them to do this and that, &c. he ought to be " made sensible, that, whoever was their commander " now, it was their courtesy that made him so; but " that, however, Mr. Sbehocke might have the refu- " sal, if the majority thought fit, but not else. But, " at the same time, observed to them, that my com- " mand was too lofty and arbitrary for a private soip; " that 1 should have continued in men of was, where " people were obliged quietly to bear all harships im- " posed upon them, whether right or wrong." To which some present, who had a regard for me, answered, " That they never knew or saw me treat any body " unjustly or severely ; and that, however rigid I " might
c i to MAGELLANICA, &c. 535 might be, they had nobody else to depend on ; and 1721. ** that they would all do well to consider, how many ' c difficulties I had already brought them through; that, " supposing we were preserved put of the hands of our " enemies, how many more were to come, no one " could tell; that, if they expected or intended to " return to England , it could be by no other means " than taking a turn round the world ; and that, in " that case, there was none capable to undertake the " care of them, but myself: and reminded them of " my commission, and the respect due to me upon u that, besides the protection they would receive from " it, should they fall into the hands of the Spaniards This had some effect on the meaner sort; but they were diverted from the thoughts of returning to obedience by the chief-concerned, who were no less than my first lieutenant Brooks , &c. who had made the fore- mentioned Morphew his confident, even on board the ship; for having served as foremast-man the voyage before he was made my lieutenant, he had contracted a mighty liking to the forecastle-conversation : And, besides this, they were again supported by Mr. Randal , my second lieutenant, who was Brock's brother-in-law, and others, who, forgetting all the obligations they owed to the gentlemen in England , and all the respect due to me, were now running into ingratitude, and into an irrecoverable damage to their characters and interests. I he first and most remarkable outrage committed by this gang of levellers, was on Mr. La Porte my third lieutenant, whom Morphew assaulted in a barbarous manner, and knocked him down on the beech, whilst Mr. Brooks stood by an eye-witness of this brutality. I expostulated with him upon his conduct warmly ; but with very little effect : So that I saw plainly, that there was an end of all regular authority amongst us. Very soon after, the affair came to be fully explained ; for the men framed a new set of articles, by yvhich they put themselves upon the Jamaica-d\\z Spline, declaring, that, as I had been their Captain, so thev were
5 z 6 GEORGE SHELVOCKE, 1721. were content I should be their Captain still* and, as 4 w '" further mark of their regard, they were willing to allow me six sit ares; whereas, according to the Jamai- oz-model, I ought to have only four. Upon the fame plan, many of my officers were reduced for instance, Mr. Le Porte, Mr. Dud, and Mr. Hendry , were declared midshipmen: And to this scheme their superiour officers readily consented ; so that there was no hindering it from being carried into execution. Only Mr. Coldsea the master maintained a kind of neutrality, and neither promoted nor opposed the designs, that were going forward. In this distress, I thought it lawful, and even necessary, to comply with their demands; and therefore, in conjunction with the rest of my officers, I signed those articles : and then I thought 1 should have been able to have got them to work hard on the bark, that was to carry us off; but I so'on found, that 1 was . sure to be mistaken, whenever 1 entertained any good opinion of them. Instead of listening to my advice, which, at the fame time, was entirely calculated for their service, they broke into another mutiny at the ' great tree, where they came to a resolution to demand what little money I had saved for the owners, which amounted to 750 pieces of eight in virgin-silver, a silver dish weighing 75 ounces, and 250 dollars in ready money; with which 1 was obliged to comply, and was then treated worse than ever, having only the refuse of the sish, when they had chosen the best, being glad, after an hard day's work, to dine upon scale ; while Mr. Mar phew, and his counsellors, feasted on the best fish the sea afforded. The next stroke of their insolence was, to get the arms out of my hands, of which I had hitherto taken the greatest care, because, having but one flint to a musket, and but very little ammunition, J foresaw, that, if this was wasted, we must be undone: All which I represented to them, when they made their demand, but to no manner of purpose : for they not only took the arms, but, as I imagined, they squandered away the little powder, and the few bullets we
to MAGELLAN IC A, &?c. 537 we had left, in killing cats, or any thing else that came 1720. in their way, and they could fire at. This is a concise w '~' history of our transactions in the island of Juan Fernandez , from May 24, to August 15 ; and, I believe, the impartial reader will agree, that no man could suffer more than I did, lead a worse life, or have a more uncomfortable prospect. On the 15th of August, the sight of a large strip at sea put us into the utmost confusion. Before he crossed the bay, I ordered the sires to he put out, and confined the negroes and Indians , lest the strip should be becalmed under the land, and any of them fliould attempt swimming off to her. I conceived it impossible, that she should be a man of war, which having advice of our being lost, canre to seek us; yet I knew, if sire discovered what we were about, and the wreck on the shore, we should soon have tire whole force of the Jtingdonr of Chili upon us. 1 was not long under these apprehensions; for she kept away large, and at too great a distance to perceive any thing of us. On this occasion I got most of the people under arms, and was glad to fee so many of them, in some measure, obev dient to my command. I, upon this, told them, I was pleased to fee their arms in such good order : To which they answered impertinently, That it was for their own lakes. But, before they were dispersed, I told them, that the necessity of our affairs was such, that it required every one to give their assistance, and use their best endeavours to get the bark afloat, instead of caballing against their captain; which would in the end be highly prejudicial that, if we were discovered, all hopes would be gone, and we could reasonably expect no other, than to be slaves in some of the mines; that we had still a great deal of work, and never above ten of the more considerate, and commonly but six or seven, who attended it ; and that, (as they knew) to strew an example, 1 was always one of the number. But they were so obstinate, and so wilfully insensible ot the impendent destruction which was likely to fall upon Vol. III. 3Y us,
53* GEORGE SHELVOCKE, 1720. us, that the more I made use of reason to reclaim W ' J them, the more I remonstrated to them the ill consequences that would attend their continual mutinies, and the more I encouraged them by future prospects of advantage, the more they ran into a confused distraction and interruption of any thing that might be of service to them in any respect. The next day they divided amongst themselves, upon this question, Whether the bark should be carried on, or whether they should build two large shallops, and set what was done of the bark on fire. The favourers of this new design, who were headed by Morphew , and his friend, aimed ata separation by this means, and did not doubt they should have their ends, considering the great influence they had as yet over their fellow-fosterers -, but, as this must be carried by a majority of votes, according to their own articles, they assembled before my tent to debate this matter; which they did in a noisy clamorous manner on both sides. But in order to come to a conclusion, I positively assured them, that boats would be impracticable ; because our tools, and materials too, were almost worn out and gone-, therefore it was in vain for them to dispute about it. The workmen, and a considerable majority of the rest, sided with me in the behalf of the bark ; but, at night, the carpenter sent me word, that if I did not deliver him the money agreed at the beginning, notwithstanding the terms for the payment of it were not executed, I should not see his face again -, so I was obliged to raise the money for him. The most provoking part of this proposal was, that the fellows who took upon them to harangue and stickle first, were those who had never done an hour's work since we had been castaway; but, not gaining their point, they openly declared I should not be their Captain, and that none but Brooks should be their commander; which was (perhaps) what that young man aspired to, and had long expected, if one may draw reasonable conclusions from his deportment to me; and he undoubtedly might have been their commander.
to MAGELLANICA, &c. 539 tommander, had it not been for the people in the boat-1720. swain's tent, who, although they were fond of think-' - "'^ ing themselves their own masters, and would not submit to regular command, yet had that respect left, as not to give their consents that I Ihould be left on the island. I must own* that it was a thing very indifferent to me, had I not thought, that I acquitted myself of my duty, in doing what in me lay, to hinder so many of his Majesty's subjects, intrusted under my care, from becoming vagabonds. September the 9th, the boat that I have already mentioned to be begun by the armourer, was launched : and, being now in the way of completing our bark; there yet remained unconstdered, and undetermined, what provisions we could get to support us in our voyage. This was as necessary to be looked into, as the finisliing our embarkation, the one being useless without the other; and all the stock we had, was one cask of beef, five or six bushels of farina, or Cassador-flour, together with four or five live hogs. 1 made several experiments to save both fish and seal, but it was impossible to be done without fait. . At length, we luckily thought on a method of curing the conger-eel, by splitting them, and taking out the back-bone; then dipped them in sea-water, and, lastly, hung them up to dry in a great smoke. But no other fish could be preserved after that manner: Therefore the fishermen were ordered to make it their business to catch what congers they could ; and now several of the people, who had not yet struck a stroke, began to repent of their folly, as they grew weary of living on this place; and offered their service to go a-fishing, with some foolish excuse or other, for being'so long idle, and asked my pardon, promising not to lose a moment for the time to come. The new boat, being sent to try her fortune, returned at night, and brought with them a great parcel of fish of several sorts; amongst which were 200 eels, which was a good beginning, and every tent took their proportion of then) to save 3 Y 2 and
54 <> GEORGE SHELVOCKE, 1720. and cure, and the boat was haled up every night, a'ncl W ' J a strict watch was keptover them, to prevent any making their escape. Having this eonveniency of a large boat, 1 desired Mr. Brooks , our only diver, to try what he could recover from that part of the wreck which lay without. He accordingly went, and could find but one small gun, which he weighed, and brought ashore, together with two pieces of a large church candlestick, w ich was a part of the gentlemen owners plate. Our boat was daily employed in fishing, the armourer constantly supplying with hooks, and- there was no want of lines, which were made of twisted ribband, of which a great quantity was driven alhore. In the mean time, those who were ashore made twine-stuff for rigging, etc. and patched up the canvas for fails ; the cooper completed his calks, and, in a strort time, we had masts on end, tolerably well rigged, and made a a good figure. But, notwithstanding this strew, 1 had a damp upon my spirits, when I reflected within myself on the certain and un ad voidable difficulty we Ihould find in calking her tight, which was like to prove an ugly piece of work, where one had bad seams,- wretched tools, and indifferent artists to deal with ;> which was our cafe. However, when we had done it* and came to put it in the water, to try the fitness of our work, it was followed by an universal outcry, A Sieve ! a Sieve ! And now every one appeared truly melancholy and dispirited, insomuch that 1 was afraid they would not have used any farther means; but in a- l.ttle time, by incessant labour, we brought her into a tolerable condition, and, having repaired the ship's pumps, 1 contrived them to fit our bark. This, they cried, was a poor dependence ; but I desired them to* have patience, and to continue their aid, in doing what more could be thought of, and prepare to launch her, and then we should be better able to judge what we might expect, before we ventured to lea in her ; and that, in the mean time, the cooper ihould make a bucket for each man, if his materials- would hold out. This
*0 MAGELLANIC A, &c. 541 This being approved on by all, we agreed to put her ' 7 20, in the water the next spring-tide, which fell out the 5th of October 1720, by which time we had saved 2300 eels, weighing, one with another, one'pound each, and about sixty gallons of seals oil, to fry them in. This, with what 1 mentioned before, was all our sea-stock. The appointed time being come, we were all ready ; but, in launching her, as she fell from the blocks, that which was to receive her abaft gave way, and down she settled, and stuck fast, our launch being with the head towards the sea. 1 thought we were irretrievable spoiled now; but, when we came to make purchases to raise her again, happily found she did not hang so heavy as I dreaded; by which means we got her clear off, and saved at the same time. As she went off, 1 named her The Recovery, though I was sadly afraid of hearing ill news from those afloat in her. All things, however, answering pretty well, we resolved to run the hazard of going off in her ; and with that view, made all possible dispatch in getting things on board : After all, a dozen of our people chose to remain on snore, rather than run the hazard of going to sea in such a vessel; and sent me word, when 1 pressed them to it, That as yet they did not think themselves sufficiently prepared for the other world; and with them remained about as many negroes and Indians. When we first came on shore, the weather would not permit us to go a fishing, so that we were then constrained to live upon seals ; the entrails of which, 1 must confess, are tolerable food; but the constant and prodigious daughter we made of them, frighted them from our side of the island. October the 6, we departed, with nothing to subsist at sea with but the smoked congers, one of which was allowed to each man for twenty-tour hours, one cask of beef, and four live hogs, which had fed all the time on the putrefied carcases of the seals we had killed, with three or four bushels of meal. We were upwards of forty crouded together, lying upon the bundles
-42 GEORGE SHELVOCKE, 172°. bundles of eels, in no method of keeping themselves clean ; lo that all our scales were as much offended as possible. 1 here was not a drop of water to he had, without sucking it out of the cask with the barrel of a musket, which was made use of by every body promiscuously: and the little unsavoury morsels we daily eat, created perpetual quarrels, every one contending for the frying pan. All the conveniency we had for a sire, was only -a half-tub silled with earth, which made it so tedious, that we had a continual noise of frying from morning to night. 1 proposed that we should stand to the south-east, toward the bay of Conception , that basing nearest to us. Every day, while the sea-breeze continued, we were hard put to it for not having a- boVe sixteen inches free board, and our bark tumbling prodigiously, the water continually ran over us; and, having only a grating deck, and no tarpawlin to cover it, except the bark's top-fail, which was but thin, our pumps would but just keep us free; notwithstanding which, 1 was uneasier by bearing away, Concepteon being our chief dependence. On thy 10th, at four in the morning, we fell in with a great ship; and, by the moon-light, I could plainly fee she was Europe-built. We were obliged to act in such a manner, as the nature of our cafe required, which was desperate : therefore I stood for her; and, we being rigged after the manner of the small craft of the country, they did not regard us till day-light: which coming on before we could get quite up with her, they discovered the brownness of our canvas, and immediately suspected us, wore ship, and haled close on a wind to the westward ; then hoisted their colours, and sired a gun, and crouded away from us, and left us behind them at a great rate; but, it falling calm two hours after, we had recourse to our oars, and approached them with tolerable speed: and, in the mean time, overhaled our arms, which we found to be in a very bad condition, one third of them being without flints, and but three cutlasses; so that we were net prepared at all for boarding,
to MAGELLANIC A: 543 boarding, which was the only means we could have of 172a. taking any ship. We had but one small cannon; W ' J which we could not mount, and therefore were obliged to fire it as it lay along the deck ; and, to supply it, we had no more ammunition than two round shot, a few chainbolts, aud bolt-heads, the 'clappers of the Speed - well's bell, and some bags of beech-stones to serve for partridge. In four hours we came up with them, e- very one seeming as easy in their minds, as actually in the poffeilion of her ; and were only sorry, that she was not deeper laden than she seemed to be : But as we advanced nearer, I saw her guns and patereroes, and a considerable number of men on the deck, with their arms glittering in the fun. The enemy defied us to come on board them ; and, at the fame time, gave us a volley of great and small shot, which killed our gunner, and almost brought our foremast by the board. This unexpected reception staggered a great many, who before seemed to be the forewardest, that they lay on their oars for some time, notwithstanding that I urged them to keep their way; but, recovering again, rowed close up with them, and engaged them, till all our small shot was expended, which obliged us to fall astern to make some slugs : In this manner we made three attempts, without any better success. All the night we were busied making iluggs, and had provided a large quantity the next morning, when we came to a final resolution, of either carrying her, or of submitting to her ; and. accordingly, at day-break, I ordered twenty men, in our yawl, to lay her athwart the hawse, whilst I boarded her in the bark : The people in the boat put off, giving me repeated assurances of their good behaviour; but the very instant we were coming to action, a gale sprung up, and she went away ■from us. This ship was called the Margaretta , and was thfc fame which had been a privateer belonging to Saint Mala, and mounted forty guns all the last war. Next day, we plundered the town of Iquique , and found the following booty, more valuable to us at present
544 GEORGE SHELVOCKE, * 7 zo present, than gold or silver, which consisted of sixty bushels of wheat-flour, 120 of calavances and corn, some jerked beef, pork, and mutton, 10,000 weight of well-cured fist, a good number of fowls, some rusk, and four or five days eating of soft bread, together with five or six jars of Peruvian wine and brandy ; and had the good fortune to find a boat near the store, to bring off their plunder, which otherwise would have been of little use to us, our boat being laden with men. Mean while we, in the bark, were carried away to the northward, by the current out of the sight of the island ; and they, not having laden their boats before the heat of the day, had a laborious task to row off their heavy laden boats $ whilst we were under the melan- cholly apprehensions, that our people, not finding any thing considerable, had taken it into their heads to stay ashore, and desert us: But these clouds dispersed, when, towards the evening, 1 perceived two boats approaching us very fast, and discovered tsiem as much burdened as they could safely be. Words cannot express the joy that reigned among us when they came aboard : The scene was now changed from farpine to plenty j the loaves of soft bread were distributed, and the jars of wine broached ; but I took care they should drink moderately of it, each man having no more than half a pint: And, after living a day or two on wholesome diet, we wondered our stomachs could digest the rank nauseous eels fried in train-oil; and could hardly believe that we had lived on noting else for a month past. 1 was assured, by my second lieutenant, that the Indians did not express any great concern at what happened, but seemed rather to be pleased at our plunder- ring the Spaniards-, so natural is it for bad masters tq find enemies in their servants. This little island of Iquique lies in the latitude of 90, degrees 50 minutes sonth. It is about a mile and a half in circumference, and half a mile, or thereabouts, from the main-land of Peru, the channel between full of rocks. It is of a moderate height, but the bulk of
to MAGELLANICA, &c. 545 t is entirely composed of cormorants dung, which, as 1720. I have before observed, is made use of for manuring the land, which produces cod pepper. In colour it Is exceeding white ; so that places covered with it appear, at a distance, like chalk-cliffs. The smell of it is certainly very offensive, and, in all probability, very unwholsome -, but the gain that is made of it very considerable, since several strips load here every year, and carry it to Arica. There are no inhabitants on it but negro-staves, who clean and prepare it in large heaps near the shore, ready for boats to take it off. As to the village where the lieutenant resides, that is on the tontinent, close by the sca-side, it consists of about sixty scattered ill-built houses, (which hardly deserve that name) and a small church •, there is not the least verdure to be seen about it, nor does it afford the least necessary of life, not even water, which they are obliged to fetch from the Quebrada, or the break of Pisa- gua, in boats, ten leagues to the northward. Being, therefore, a place so miserable, we may conclude, that the advantage accruing to them by guana, or cormorants dung, is the only inducement to bring inhabitants to this place. This last inconvenience was what, I suppose, led them to the contrivance of building their habitations on the main land ; which, though it is a situation as hideous as can be imagined, and not wholly out of the stench of the offensive vapours of the isic of Iquique, yet is not quite so suffocating. But although the land is so desolate and forbidding, the sea affords two or three forts of excellent fish, of such kind as 1 ne- . ver law before ; one of them is a large silver eel, tho' much thicker in proportion to its length ; these and the rest are equally delicious. They cure them in a cleanly manner, and export great quantities of them by the ships which come from Guano. By two Indian prisoners, we were informed, that the lieutenant of Iquique had a boat at Pisagua , which was sent for water, of which we began to stand in need. I sent Mr Ran~ dally second lieutenant, in quest of her; but this failed ; Vol. III. 3 Z . and
?46 GEORGE SHELVOCKE, 1720. ar.d though they missed the vessel, they landed in- z dangerous manner, on a fort of afloat called Baljes, mucss in use on this coast; they brought off only a few bladders of water, and three or four basses, very artificially sewed, and filled with wind, made fast along side one another : On these the rower fits, looking forward, with a double paddle ; and, as fast as he can perceive the wind to escape from under, he adds a supply, by a contrivance for that purpose. These are the chief embarkations made use of by the fishermen, and are serviceable for landing on this coast, which has hardly one smooth beach from one end to the other of it. We should have looked into the port of -dried, but that we heard there was a ship of force there. We continued our course to Le Nafeo, of which port we met with a large ship, about two hours before day-light. It was ten in the morning before -we came up with her, though we rowed very hard; and after a brisk dispute, which lasted six or seven hours, and then the sea- breeze coming in very strong, we were obliged to leave her. This strip was called St. Francisco Palacio, of 700 tons, eight guns, and ten patereroes, a great number of men, and well provided with small arms; although fine was so deeply laden, that, as she rolled, the water run through her scuppers, over her, upon deck; so that she had more of the resemblance of an ill-contrived wooden castle, then of a strip, according to the fashion of building at present in Europe. It was our ill fortune to meet two of the best equipped strips, in the private trade, at that time, in the South Seas. In this action, we had not above twenty small arms that were of any use, which was the effect of their inconsiderate proceedings on Juan Fernandez-, but notwithstanding this, they were so impatient,, that some of them were resolved to go and surrender immediately to the enemy. To prevent this, 1 ordered four men, I thought I could trust, into cur two boats, to put it out of their power: but those two that -vere in the best boat deceived me, and went away with her; and my first
to MAGELLANIC A, &?<\ 547 first: lieutenant and Morphew , made a party to go away 1720* with the only boat we had left; which they had cer- w '' / tainly effected, but that it blew so hard the next day, as to hinder them from executing their design ; the knowledge of which I was forced to dissemble, as I had not power enough to punish them. We stood the day following into the road of Pisco , where we saw a very fine (hip, and resolved unanimously to board her. We first ordered our boat to intercept theirs; which they missed : But we kept our resolution nevertheless •, and to our great satisfaction, when we came to board, the captain, and all his officers, met us with their hats off, beseeching us to grant them good quarters ; which we readily did. She was a good ship, of about 200 tons, called the Jesu Maria , almost laden with pitch, tar, copper, nnd plank : but nothing else. The Captain offered 16,000 dollars for her ransom ; but I could not comply, the Recovery being disabled in her masts by boarding; and not only so, but I was hindered by theconsideration, that now we might have room enough to enjoy ourselves, some cleanliness at least, an article we had been perfect strangers to ever since we had departed from the island of 'Juan Fernandez, We therefore made the utmost dispatch in getting every thing out of the bark. The Spanish captain informed me, that the Margaretta had been arrived some time at Calao, where Ihe had given a full account of us; that the captain, and three men, were killed in the action ; and that the priest, and several others, were wounded -, and that she was now ready to put to sea again, with an addition of ten guns, and fifty men, to cruise for us-, and that the Flying Fish , a frigate of twenty-eight guns, was already out with the fame intent; and that there was advice sent both ways along shore, and commissions to equip what strength they had to catch us. All the night they were upon the watch at the town, making a thew, by the continual firing of guns, to give us an earnest of what we must expect, if we should attempt a descent. Ha- 3 z 2 vin S
54§ GEORGE SHELVOGKE, 1720. ving cleared our bark the next morning, we gave her W ' w ' to the Spanijh captain and, as soon as the breeze sprung up, we weighed, and went to sea, and in going met with our boat that had left us. They edged towards us, imagining we were Spaniards ; by which means we got them again. The two fellows were almost dead, having neither eat nor drank any thing for three days past, and had just been ashore on a small island near this harbour, to kill some seals, to drink their blood. They had no excuse, but that they fell asleep; and that the breezes had wafted us in the bark away from them. We had not much time to observe the place, which, however, upon a transient view, appeared to us very pleasantly situated among orchards and vineyards. After we left it, we proceeded along the coast very cautiously, as knowing that we were now almost in the mouths of our enemies, and that the least act of indiscretion must throw us into their hands. We ventured, however, to look into the roads of Guanchaco , Malabriga , and Cheripe ; but seeing no shipping in them, passed on between the island of Lobos de Tierra and the continent. On November 25, we found ourselves near the saddle of Payta ; and I immediately bethought me, that, though our force was much diminished since we last took it, yet we might, without any hazard, surprise them in the night. Accordingly, we endeavoured to get in with the 'ship, till, it growing calm, it was thought better to defer it . till the morning, since our being in a Spanijh built ship would be sufficient to deceive the inhabitants, and make it impossible for them to suspect us. In the morning, the people ashore, observing the fatigue we underwent in making so many short trips to gain ground to windward, lent oss a large boat, lull of men, to help us to bring in our ship, and inquire news of us. As soon as we saw them making towards us, i ordered, that none should be seen, but such as wore the Spanifi complexion and dress, who were ready to answer such questions as they asked i-n hailing us, and give T -
549 to MAGELLANIC A, &c. pive them a rope to make fast their boat when they 1720. clapped us aboard, while some lhould be concealed un- dec the gunnel, with mulkets ready to point into their boot, and command them in as soon they had made themselves fast. This stratagem had its effect. I examined the prisoners of the condition [of the town, which, they assured us, was very poor at present, there being neither money nor provisions in it; and shewed me a small bark on ihore, which Captain Clip- perton had sent in a little while before, with some of his prisoners; upon which every thing had been removed into the country. This unwelcome news did not hinder us from keeping on our way, with our Spanijh colours Hying, till we came to the anchorage. I sent Mr. Brooks , as soon as cur anchor was down, with both the boats, and twenty-four men, no more of them appearing than those that rowed, and two or three sitting jn each, the rest, with their arms, lying in the bottoms of the boats; so that, when my people landed, they found the children playing on the beach, who immediately took the alarm, and run away at the sight of armed men. In an instant, the whole place was in a consternation, and happy was the man who could make his escape, the town being left destitute, and the enemy being too nimble of foot for ours to o- vertake them. They ransacked Payta , and, upon a strict search, found, that our prisoners had not deceived us, in saying the place was poor for they could find nothing but a few bales of coarse cloth, about 500 weight of dried dog-filh, two or three pedlars packs, and an inconsiderable quantity of bread and fweat- meats : so that we had but small employment for our boats. But, though we had so little success in our land-enterprise, we took a booty as we lay at anchor in the ship; which was a vessel with about fifty jars of Peruvian wine, and brandy. The master c i her told me, that he was come by stealth from Calao , there being orders, that none but ships of some force should stir out. He told rqc the same story that the Captain of
5 *5® GEORGE SHELVOCKE, 1720. the Jesus Maria had before, and gave me to under- stand, that it would be next to impossible for me to get off from the coast without being taken. But to return to the town. My people were in no great hurry to quit it, and, it being now dark, some of the Spaniards, who were lurking about the out-skirts of the town, hearing so many small arms fired in the road, instantly concluded, that our ship was attacked, and were in Hopes, that some of their men of war were come again to'deliver them from the hands of their enemies. Upon these false surmises, they began to assemble together; and, being apprised of the small number of English ashore, who did not exceed eighteen, came down the hills in a great fury. At first my people, not doubting they were in earnest, took refuge in the biggest church, resolving to defend themselves therebut at length they marched out, and formed themselves into a line, kept their drums beating, and, one of them firing a musket at random, they spoiled the Spaniards jest, heard no more of them, and embarked very quietly. From hence we directed our course for the island of Gorgona , in the bay of Panama ; and, in our passage thither, built a tank, or wooden cistern, to hold ten tons of water. In our way, we made the island of Plate, Cape St. Francisco, and Gorgonello, or Little Gorgona and, on December 2, arrived at the island of Gorgona itself, where we had the advantage os filling our water-cafks in the boat, the water running in small streams into the sea and cut down our wood at high-water mark; so that, in less than forty-eight hours, we did our business'. From this place we hurried away, for fear of those who might be in quest of us; and, having got out of the track of the enemy's strips, consulted on the properest method, of proceeding : and then the majority were for going directly for the coasts of Asa. Upon which we ' changed our strip's name from the Jesus Maria to the Happy Return , and applied all our endeavours towards quitting these coasts ; but the winds and currents were contrary;
to MAGELLANIC A, 55T contrary ; and some against this motion did so much 172*. damage clandestinely to our tank, that the greatest part of the water leaked out; so that this, with continual contrary winds, and dead calms, which had detained us, till our provisions were much exhausted, rendered us incapable of undertaking so long a run : Therefore, to furnisti ourselves with what we wanted, 1 proposed a descent on Rio Lejo , in the latitude os 11 degrees 50 minutes north, on the coast of Mexico ; but in our way thither, we accidentally fell in with Cape Burica , in the latitude of 8 degrees 20 minutes north; and then, on second thoughts, judged it would be safer for us to make some attempts on the island of Quibo, in the latitude of 7 degrees 30 minutes north, where, by Captain Rogers' s account, I guessed there were inhabitants, who lived plentifully on the product of that llland. On January 13, 1721, we entered, fays the Captain, between the islands of Qui.bo and Quivetta, in twenty fathoms water, over against a sandy bay, which promised us great conveniencies for wooding and watering. I therefore sent the boat thither to view it, who reported, that there was a good close harbour a little to the lbuth; and that they law no signs of inhabitants, except three or four huts by the water-side, which, they supposed, had formerly been made use of by pearl-fishers, there being great quantities of mother of pearl-shells about them. I considered the matter attentively, and at last resolved hot to shut myself up in a close harbour, for fear of bad consequences. As soon as day broke the next morning, we saw two large boats rowing in for Quivetta , one of them having Spanijh colours flying ; which gave me some apprehensions, that they might have some intelligence of, and intended to attack us. It may no be amiss to inform the reader here, that the mulattoes on the coast of Mexico are remarkable for their courage, and have sometimes done very bold actions in such small imbar- kations as these. However, as to the people we had to , *
GEORGE SIIELVOCKE. 55 2 1721-to do with, they continued their course, till we faW '"' w them go into a small cove on the island of Quivetta ; which gave us very great satisfaction, as it convinced us, that they had no thoughts of attacking our (hip, The tables were now turned, and, from contriving how to defend ourselves, we began to turn our thoughts on the means of engaging them ; and, after a little debate, whether it would be prudent for us to attack them in our boat, it was resolved, on all hazards, to go after them in our yawl ; which enterprize was commanded by Mr. Brooks , first; lieutenant, who found them all ashore, brought away their piraguas, and two prisoners ; the one a mulatto, the other a negro. The rest: sought for refuge in the woods. We took all their provisions, which consisted of a little pork, and some green, ripe, and dried plantains. There was a large quantity of the latter, which, being pounded, made a a grateful flour to the taste, indifferently white ; and, all together, made up a month's bread. The mulatto mortified us very much, by telling us, that a vessel, laden with provisions, had passed very near to us in the night; to make amends, he promised to conduct us to a place, where we might supply ourselves without hazard, provided we were not above two or three days about it; wherefore we were very brisk in getting our wood and water. On January 16, we weighed from hence for Mariato , that being the name of the place we were bound to. In going out from Qui- bo , we were in imminent danger of being horsed by the current upon two rocks, lying at a small distance from one another off the northermost point of Quivet- ta ; but having cleared them, wcsseered through Canal Bueno , or the Good Channel , so called from its safety, being free from dangerous (holes and rocks. It might as properly be called the Straights of Quibo , which form the western side of it, extending about eight or nine leagues north and south. Over against: the south entrance of these straights, at the distance of a league from Point Mariato , which is the westermost point of the
to MAGELLANIC A, 553 the gulf of St. Martin, lies the island of Sebaco, which i7 21, is, to the best of my judgement, about ten leagues in W ' J circumference. 1 ran along the fouth-end of it, and found every point Hat at least a league from the Ha ore ; and, on the 19 th in the evening, we got safe in between Mariaio and the island Sebaco, and anchored in iix fathoms water, over against a green field ; which is instruction sufficient!, there being but that clear spot thereabouts. Our pilot desired we might be going at least three hours before day-light, and that then we should be in good time at the plantations. Accordingly, I went at two the next morning in our boat, and ordered the two lieutenants in the two piraguas, leaving my son, and a few with him, to take care of the ship. Our pilot, having us in charge, carried us up some part of the river of St. Martin, and out of that, into several branches of narrow creeks, amongst many groves, where we had not room to row. I could by no means approve of this navigation, and therefore kept a strict eye upon our guide, and was ready to suspect, that he had no good design in his head. We landed just at day-break, and, when we came on the bank, found ourselves in a fine Savannah or plain; and, after a march of about three miles, came to two farm-houses : but those belonging to them made their escape, except the wife and children of one house. We had the satisfaction of feeing, that this place answered-the description that had been given us of it, being surrounded by numerous herds of black cattle, hogs, and plenty of fowls of all sorts, together with some dried beef, plantains, and Indian corn ; and, for the present, we were entertained with a breakfast of hot cake and miik ; a diet we had been long unacquainied with. When it was broad day, I saw our soip close by us ; upon which I asked our mulatto, How he came to bring us so far about ? who answered, That there was a river between us ; and that he did not know whether it was fordabie or not. I therefore sent some to try, who found it was not above knee-deep : Wherefore, to a- Vol. 111. 4 A void
554 GEORGE SHELVOCKE, 1722. void carrying our plunder so far by land and water, f ordered, that our boats should row out of the river of St. Aiartin, and o come to the beach over against the (hip. We had not been long here, before we had the master of the family in custody, who brought horses with him, and desired we would make use of him in any thing he could serve us. This offer was kindly received : and 1 presently employed him to carry what I thought sit to our boat. This done, he went among his black cattle, and brought us what number I thought we could save ; for we had but little salt, and I could not afford water to keep them alive when we came to sea; so that, as soon as they were on board, they were killed, and their siesta preserved by cutting it in long stips, of the thickness tif pne's finger, and then springling it with so small a quantity of salt, that we did not use above four or five pounds to 100 ■weight. Having let it lie together two or three hours, we hung it up to dry in the fun two or three days successively; which perfectly saved it, which could not have been done in any other way, by any other quantity of the best salt. As we had now done all we proposed, we departed from hence the next morning, with our decks full of fowls and hogs, amongst which one had Iris navel on his back; which, the Spaniards fay, when wild in the woods, is a terrible creature to meet with, although, at their full growth, they are but small. We returned by the fame Way that we came, through Canal Bueno, and made a stop at Quibo y to complete our water; and, when we failed, gave our two prisoners the largest piragua, that thosestill remaining at Qui- ■vctta might return from whence they came. But I ssiust here inform my reader, that the wine and brandy we had taken, had worked so briskly with my ship's company, as to divide them into two parties, inveterate to the last degree one against another, who used to be lo firmly united at first; insomuch that I have had, in one night's time, the ringleaders of both of them desiring me to espouse their cause," both assuring me, that
555 to MAGELLANIC A, &c. that the other had a design on my life and urged me 1722. to take the opportunity to murther those, who were not of their faction. It is even unaccountable to myself, how the mischief was diverted for I could use no means, but speaking calmly to them on both sides, and suffer them (indeed it was out of my power to hinder it) to get drunk as often as they would ; and, in that condition, they have often, all together, been skirmishing with each other ; and I have had, more than once, my cloaths almost torn off my back in endeavouring to part them. It Was happy, that this trade did not last long ; for, while they had any thing to drink, I judged it unsafe to lay my head on my pillow ; which almost wearied me out of my life. But their free access to the liquor shortened the term of this miserable way of palling our time ; and though; while it held, it was attended by some vexatious consequences, yet it had this one good effect, that it helped off with the liquid evil at a great rate. Necessitous hunger obliged them to act jointly and vigorously together at Mariato ; but, after having glutted themselves a day or two, they relapsed again, and were as distracted as ever, though now in the midst of a moderate plenty. My land, as well as sea officers, were now obliged to learn, at least; how to steer, in order to take their turns with the seamen. Such was the pass they had now brought themselves to; for, by sinking my authority, they had absolutely lost their own, and were even in a worse situation than I; inasmuch as the crew, for their own fakes, were obliged to have recourse to me upon all emergencies, obeying me punctually whilst tnose lasted, and abusing me plentifully as soon as they were Over. On the 25th of January in the morning, we discovered a fail about two leagues to the leeward: We gave them chace til! such time as we discovered they were Europe built and then, fearing she might be one of the enemies men of war, 1 clapped on a wind, and in half an hour it fell calm. We soon after saw a boat 4 A 2 rowing
55<S GEORGE SHELVOCKE, 1722. rowing towards us, which pfoved the pinnace of our Contort the Success, commanded by their first lieutenant Mr. Davidson. This interview amazed us both ; he was surprised to find me in such a condition, and I no less at finding him in those seas. [Here is given along narrative of the disputes that happened betwixt Captains Shelvocke and CHpperton , but as these have been mentioned in Clipper ton's voyage ^ they are omitted in this. On the 30th of March we found ourselves before the port of Sansonnate : It was about sun-f'etwhen we looked into this harbour, where we discovered a ship of good size, lying at anchor: Upon this, as it was a fine moon-light evening, I sent my first lieutenant, with some of our beast hands, in the yawl, to fee what she was. The boat had not been long gone before we heard the guns fired ; and soon after my lieutenant returned, and reported, she was a stout large sliip, with one tire of guns at least. We little regarded their strength, or our own weakness, believing our necessities would make us a match for her; and therefore I continued plying in all night, and prepared to engage her. At fun-rising, the land-breeze blew so fresh off the shore, that we worked in but slowly; in the mean time, we received all their fire upon every board we made, without making them the least return, and their boat was employed to transport soldiers from the shore to the ship. They hoisted a jar, of about ten gallons of powder and match, at each main and fore yard arms, and bowsprit end, to let fall on our decks, if we boarded them ; which contrivance, if it had taken effect:, would have soon made an end of both ships and those that were in them. Seeing them so desperate in their preparations to receive us, I could not but expect a warm dispute; but, as our cafe would not admit any neglect of what offered, though at ever so hazardous a rate, their contrivances for defence did not much dismay us. About eleven in the morning the sea-breeze came in and, that I might make our small force the most beneficial to us, I ordered out three guns
to MAGELLANICA, frr. 557 guns to be brought over on the side we were like to 1722. engage them ; and, being within musquet-stiot, dis- charged them : The sea-breeze freshing ran us upon them very fast, whilst our small-arrris were effectually employed to break the powder-jars before we actually boarded them ; which we did without delay ; and, after the exchange of a few shot, when aboard of each other, they submitted. This ship was called the Sacra familia , of three hundred tons, six guns, and seventy men. She had a great number of small-arms, grenade- fhells, and shot; they had been for some time arrived from Calao , with wine and brandy ; but had now nothing in her but fifty jars of gun-powder, a small parcel of rusk, and jerked beef: In short, she could hardly be said to be worth the trouble we took, or the risque we ran ; but fire having the character of a better sailor, and visibly better fitted than ours, I changed ships, and we all went on board our prize, which had been equipped in the warlike manner we found her, and commissioned on purpose to take us, if she should chance to meet us in her way. Our imall-arms (to do justice to my people) were handled with the greatest dexterity -, but, being employed mostly in shattering the powder-jars, that the combustible matter in them might fall into the water, there was none killed but the boatswain, and only one slightly wounded ; but, if our small-arms had not been so usefully diverted, there could not have failed of being a considerable slaughter amongst them ; on our part, we did not receive the least damage. We were in treaty for several weeks for a ransom, and to purchase provisions from the Spaniards, on this coast; but they having detained an orlicer and some of our men, we failed on A- pril 25th, when we came up with the island of Cano , in the latitude of nine degrees north, which, by the verdure of it, promised to yield us water, if we could get our canoe ashore. Under hopes of succour from this little iste, we came to an anchor on the north-west side of it, and it was as much as we could do to hand our fails
558 GEORGE SHELVOCKE, 1722. fails, stop the cable, &?c. We soon began to imagine that we could see a run of water ; but, at the same time, dreaded the dangerous surf, which broke on the beach all round those parts we had seen of it. Nevertheless, Mr. Randal wassent with some jars, to try what could be done ; but they not seturning till it was very late at night, I was fearful they were lost, or that, not finding water there, they were gone to the continent; but to my unspeakable satisfaction, they came aboaird with their jars filled. Any one may guess the excess of joy which there must naturally be among men who. were thus opportunely delivered from the hands of death ; but, as they did not bring above sixty or seventy gallons of it, I took care to restrain them from the use of it, allowing to each man only a quart, to be immediately distributed to them. What made me more strict in this was, that Mr. Randal allured me, that the breakers were so hazardous, that he believed we should not be able to get any more ; but that very night we chanced to have a shower of rain, which we made the best use of, by catching what we could of it in sheets, blankets, &c. During this thirst, we constantly wished for rainy weather, and had often good reason to expect it by louring black clouds, which seemed every minute to be ready to discharge their burthens ; yet never did before to any purpose. Being willing to make another essay the next day, I sent the boatswain, and some with him, to make a second attempt; but, after having been quite round the island, and wasted the whole day in search of a smooth-beach, lie could not see one spot where he might venture on shore. Therefore, thinking we had a stock sufficient to carry us to Quibo, which was about thirty leagues from us, I weighed the next day, and, in ranging near the island, saw a smooth beach, which induced me to send the boat a third time, that we might be provided against such contrary currents or calms as we might meet with in our way: accordingly they went and filled nine jars; which done, we held our way to the southeastward, in a few • days arrived at Quibo, and anchored
§59 to MAGELLANIC A, &c. anchored at the same place where we had been twice before. ' > ' r0 We pursued our business of wooding and watering in this island pretty cheerfully, and yet without being in any great hurry, for several reasons ; but the principal was, that as we were now within fourscore leagues of Panama , it was very requisite to deliberate seriously on our scheme of surrendering there to the Spaniards, since we all knew, that this step once taken, there would remain no room for deliberation afterwards. We considered, that die very situation of this place afforded us many advantages ; for Panama is by n,o means strong towards the sea, and, therefore, having a good stiip, we thought it would be no difficult matter to settle the terms of the treaty while we continued at a distance. On the 15th of May, a small bark, taking us for Spaniards., bore down to us. The master of her was mightily surprised, when he found his mistake ; but soon recovered, when he learned we were bound for Panama ; and readily offered to pilot us thither, as he was bound for that port. This vessel was called the Holy Sacrament , and came last from Cheriqui , laden with dried beef, pork, and hogs. He desired I would take her in tow, complaining that the currents drove him off ihore ; so that he could not fetch the land, tho* he had constant sight of it; and that, by this means, all his live cattle were almost dead for want of water ; and that she was, at the fame time, so leaky, that his people were no longer able to stand at the pumps. Upon hearing of this, I took her into tow, and kept the master of her on board, sending some of my hands to assist them ; and spared them as much water and Indian corn as I could. It may appear strange, that this opportunity of supplying ourselves with provisions did not make an alteration in our intended proceedings ; but every one was so tired of the sea, so worn out by A continual want of all necessaries, and disheartened by our
560 GEORGE SHELVOCKE, i722.our perpetual misfortunes, that they were willing to embrace any opportunity of going astiore at any rate. Indeed, as to myself, 1 was glad, that this bark fell into our hands ; because, if we found the governour of Sansonate 's news to be false, we might be thoroughly enabled, by this help, to go tp India. To this end, I designed to anchor a great way short of the town, and keep possession of the Ho'y Sacrament , in cafe the president should not have complied with such terms as 1 esteemed safe and honourable; and then we should have it in our power to redress ourselves, by keeping out of their hands. But, all this while, we had not determined who should be the person intrusted with the flag of truce; for my people, having known so much treachery acted amongst themsolves, were apprehensive the person sent would only make his own cafe good to the governor, and not return again. Therefore, after all, my son was thought the properest to go, as being sure of his return, if it was purely for my fake. This, and many other objections, were started, that could not be so easily removed ; notwithstanding we kept on our way, fixed in our resolution. On the 17th, another bark came down upon 11s, stood pretty near us, and then Iheer.ed off again. U- pon which, I sent Mr. Randal in our canoe, to inform them of our design; but they no sooner saw him approaching them, than they hoisted Spanish colours, and fired. The next morning, we looked into the bay, to fee if she had lain at anchor there all night; and, as soon as flie saw us coming, she renewed her fire. U- pon which, at his own request, I sent the master of our bark, with four negroes, in a canoe, with a flag of truce, to inform them of our intentions. A gale of wind interrupted this dispute, and at last forced the canoe we sent on shore, without danger, I dare say, to their lives for they seemed to make this their choice. On the 19th, we saw a sail a-hcad of us, standing alongshore :
to MAGELLANICA, &e. 56 shore : Upon which, we let go the bark we had in tow, 1-22 and spread all the sail we could so that, by night, were at a considerable distance from our bark, which had four- of our own people, and live Spaniards in it. 1 was for lying-by in the night, that our own vessel might come up ; but my company differed from me, and it was carried by a great majority that we should continue to croud fail all night; so that, by day-break on the 26th, we were within lest than gun-shot of the chace. 1 immediately ordered our colours to be spread, fired a gun to leeward, and sent a man upon our poop co wave a.flag of truce ; but they, upon the first fight of our Englijb ensign, Bred at us, and so continued to do, with their decks full of men, hollowing, and abusing us with the grossest appellations. Notwithstanding this, I made no return, until I came close upon their quarter, and then sent one of their countrymen to the boltsprit-end, to inform them in Spanjjh , that we were bound to Panama ; and desired to treat peaceably with them ; and hoped, at least, that they would have some regard to the white flag, which they saw flying : But still they continued their fire; and Barachos, and Peros Jngleses , i. e. Drunkards , and Englilh Dogs , was ail we could get from them: And perceiving, that the more complaisant our deportment was, the more inhumanly they insulted us, 1 conceived it full time to begin with them ; and therefore met them with our helm, and loon convinced them of their error, and, in a word, gave them so warm a reception, that they sheered round off from vs. We just miffed getting hold of them ; but, it falling almost calm, we continued our engagement for the space of two or three hours, at the distance of a musket-shot: But at length a breeze wafting us near to them, we found, as fast as we approached, their courage cooled. But their Captain, still bravely persisting, and encouraging them, and exposing himself in the most open manner, was at length shot through the body, and dropped down dead. U- pon this, they immediately, with one voice, cried out Vot. III, q B for
562 GEORGE SHELVOCKE, 1722. for quarter, and put an end to our dispute. We com- manded them to hoist out their launch; but they answered, that their tackle, and all their rigging in general, were so shattered, that they could not possibly do it in any time. Therefore we hoisted out our canoe, which we had taken out of the Holy Sacrament the day before ; and Mr. Randalls and two or three more, went in her on board the prize. They found all the prisoners in the mod submissive posture, asking mercy; which they could have no great cause to expect, after their direct breach of the laws of arms and nations. Mr. Randall sent away the most considerable of the prisoners, who informed me, that their ship was called the le Conception de Recova, belonging to CaJao, but came last from Guanchaco , of the burthen of 200 tons, laden with flour, loaves of sugar, boxes of marmdade, jars of preserved peaches, grapes, limes, &c. mounted sixty guns, and had seventy odd men, well provided with small-arms, &c. and was, in particular, one of those ships, which were fitted out in an extraordinary manner, and commissioned to take us ; so that she was the second of those warlike merchant ships we had taken. In this engagement, the Spanijb Captain and a negroe was killed, and one or two slightly wounded; but their rigging, masts, and fails, were much disabled, particularly their foremast, which, by a shot that passed through the body of it, was much shattered. On our part, there was little cr no hurt done, except to our gunner, who was slightly wounded in the forehead by a pistol-ball, and our muin-mast, which had a small piece carried out of the side of it. We had now eighty prisoners of all colours, and not above twenty - fix of ourselves. When the Spanish gentlemen came on board, they would not give me time to ask them, how it came to pass, that they would not hearken to our peaceable offers ; but fell to excusing themselves, and laying ail the fault upon their dead Captain Don Joseph Desorio, who vowed in a passion, that he would have no terms, but his own ; and that he would take '■* ■■■ us
to MAGELLANICA, &c. Z6z tts by force. And indeed it is my opinion, that this 1722. was the inclination of all of them, till they found our W ' J strength ; and then, seeing their own case desperate, would have been for a parly. Amongst our prisoners, we had several of note, particularly Don Baltazzar de AEarca Conde de la Rosa , an European nobleman, who had been for some time Governour of Pise, on the coast of Peru, and was now upon his return to Spain ; and Captain Morell , who had formerly been taken by Captain Rogers , &c. All of them were treated with the utmost civilities, which they wondered at; because, from a prejudice they had against our cruizers, and from a felf-conviction of their own behaviour to wards their prisoners, they could not expect but to have been dealt With very roughly. In this situation, we were in the very track of all the shipping bound to Panama , not above thirty miles from that place, few in number, and part of us sick; all which considerations moved us to be as expeditious as possible in examining the contents of our new prize the Conception ; and, though the best part of the work was done by our prisoners, yet it took us up full two days. We were, by this means, as well as by faint winds, and stark calms, hindered from rejoining our bark, till the 22th As we bore down towards her, and came pretty near, we were extremely surprised to fee that foe only came to, and fell off, although all her fails were set; and what amazed us most was, that we saw nobody stirring in her. As soon as he came up with her, 1 ienr the boat on board ; and the officer that went in her, immediately called out to me, that there was no foul in her; but that her decks and quarters were covered with blood. This was a melancholy hearing, since it plainly appeared, by many circumstances, that the Spanish crew had murdered those of my people, who were sent to assist them: A cruel return for our civilities and services to them ! It seemed strange to me, that our men should run the least hazard of exposing themselves to be thus butchered ; for 4 11 2 they
§64 1722. GEORGE SHELVOCKE, they were four in number, completely armed, anc? there were but five of the Spattifl.'? crew, two of whom' were boys. These vile wretches doubtless took the opportunity of the Ejiglijh being lost in steep, and then murdered them, not doubting but they stiould meet with thanks and encouragement for so foul a barbarity. The names of those thus destroyed were John Giles,. F Tchn Embin , John Williams , and George Chnppel. But it is very probable, that these murderers paid with their lives for those they had taken away ; for* being above four leagues from the land, and having no boat, they probably jumped into the' lea on the appearance of our ship, thinking they should meet immediate death, if they had fallen into our power, as a just reward for so horrid a crime-, which they themselves were-so fer.- fible of, that they endeavoured to hide the decks, which was dyed with gore all over, by throwing the flocks out of beds over it; so that, till they were removed, the blood was not to be seen. This tragical^ accident was the cause of a general melancholy amongst us, and spoiled the satisfaction we had enjoyed a day or two past, on account of our late prize. Our prisoners, feeing such an universal sudden change in us, be. gan to be alarmed, and looked at each other, as if they all expected to undergo the fame fate our unhappy companions had met with. This made me fearful, on the other side, lest their dreadful apprehensions of cur revenge upon them, should stir them up to offer at some desperate attempt upon us, they being eighty in number, and we net above seventeen on board at that time, and, when we were altogether, not above twenty-five, that could stand on their legs: 1 here fore I was directly forced to show some heat, in ordering ail our prisoners to go into the siern-gallery, (which was very large) except the nobleman, and some ot the chief of their,, whilst we kept guard in the great cabin. The Spanish gentlemen, who were not confined, in a very moving manner, lamented to me the unhappy deaths of my men, and their own hard fate, in having been in
to MAGELLANIC A, &x. z6Z in some measure, eye-witnesses of this bloody murder; 1722. and let fall some expressions, whereby I perceived, that W ' J they were afraid, that 1 intended to shew some severities towards their people on this occasion. Having a good interpreter between us, I assured them, that, if I had so revengeful an inclination, the laws of my country would restrain me from putting it in execution that 1 acted by virtue of my king's commission, who, in his orders forbad, in the strictest manner, all acts of inhumanity or oppression towards our prisoners ; which assurance, I desired, might make them perfectly easy: And they solemnly promised, that, if it was possible any of those murderers could be found living, the two kingdoms of Peru and Mexico should be alarmed to bring them to justice ; and begged of me to think myself secure as to themselves, and the rest of their countrymen my prisoners, who would sooner suffer any thing, than harbour any thought that might be prejudicial to our lives and liberties, even though they ihould have the most encouraging opportunity of putting it in execution , and assured me, on their honour, that they thought they should never be able to make a just return for the generous entertainment they had met with from me. Notwithstanding this, I took some measures to secure our prisoners of the meaner fort; and then haled the Holy Sacrament along-side.of us. She was half-full of water, and the greatest part of her dried beef was wet, and spoiled : but all that was not damaged we took out, together with some live hogs, and then* gave her to Don Beltazzar de Espina , who, by the death of Captain Joseph Desorio, became commander of the Conception ; and, that night, kept a stricter watch than we had before, though none of us had scarce any steep since we had taken this ship. The next day, being as willing to get rid of them, as they were to have their ship restored to them, and pursue their voyage, I delivered the Conception into the possession of Don Beitaz- zar de Espina , Lcc. after having taken out of her twelve months provision of bread, flour, sugar, and sweetmeats
§66 GEORGE SHELVOCKE, 1722-meats, and a like proportion for the Success , which I w '' / expected to find at the Tres Marias. I likewise took away their launch, and their negroes, to assist us in the management of our ship, knowing, that we could not ■well hold out much longer, if the work was not made easier; and, since we had a large ship, and a run of 175 degrees to fail, I thought we could do no other, than reinforce ourselves by the aifistanceof these blacks, who are commonly good sailors in those parts ; and indeed, as it afterwards happened, we should never have reached the coasts of Afia, or any other land, without them. It was not only an act of generosity towards our Spanish prisoners, but an act of prudence also with regard to our own conduct, the parting, as we did, with the Conception , and all on board her. They were but three days in our possession, and in that time treated with so much humanity, that we had the uttermost reason to believe they retained a grateful fense of our kindness. The great point now to be managed, was to obtain the consent of my people to sail as far north as California, before our intended voyage to the Eafl-lndieSi for which, if we were not in as good a condition as we could wish, we were, a least, in a better than we were before, or than, all things considered, we had any reason to expect, since we had a good ship, fifteen guns, ammunition enough to supply them, and a reasonable quantity of provisions. We still wanted, however, somewhat to complete our wood and water for so long a voyage; so that the procuring this was naturally our first care. The strip's company thought of going to the island of Qitibo, which was, indeed, the nearest place to us : But the going thither was attended with two great inconveniencies : Of these, the first was the danger of the road,; which, as the stormy season was coming on, and we were but very indifferently provi-, ded with ground-tackling, must have exposed us to many dangers : The second, that, as the island ot Ifuibo was at' a very small distance from Panama , we had
to MAGELLANIC A, <bc, § 6 y had reason to fear the Spaniards would send a ship of 172?. war from thence in search of us; which would have put an end to all our designs, since we had now no further hopes of there being a peace, and consequently had laid aside all thoughts of surrendering. Upon these considerations, it was determined to ply up to Caw, where, having a good boat, we soon did our business. From this we failed for the coast of California, where we arrived the 11 th of August. On the 13th, we made the harbour of Puerto Seguro , where, having careened the ship, wooded and watered by assistance of the natives, in five days time, we took our departure from this place for Cape St. Lucas , in our way to China, on the 18 th of same month. On the 21 st, we discovered an island, bearing west- south-west, no leagues distant from Cape St, Lucas: 1 endeavoured to get in with it, but could not approach it nearer than the distance of two leagues ; and, the night coming on, and it blowing very fresh, I did not think it proper to lose so much way, as we might in the night, by lying by, or plying in, for it. 1 judged it to be seven or eight leagues in circumference; on the south-west of it there appeared a large bay, with an high rock in the middle of it. This isle my people called Sbelvocke' s Island, after my name. From hence we steered down gradually, into the parallel of 1 3 degrees north, but had our way stopped for two or three days by westerly winds, which none could ever have expected in such latitudes, and at a distance of 3 or 600 leagues from any land. We grew impatient at such an uncommon delay, and began to dread meeting with many such contrary winds in this passage. We made several conjectures on what might be the cause of it, but none that were very probable; but the trade-wind prevailing again, we kept in the track of 13 degrees north, except when we judged ourselves to be near the iholes of St. Bartholomew , and then haled a degree more northwardly, and so continued for a run of about sixty or kv-my leagues. A fortnight after we had
GEOPvGE SHELVOCKE, *722. had left California, my people, who had hitherto en-. vw joyed an uninterrupted state of health, began to be afflicted with a sickness which particularly affected their stomachs, which was, undoubtedly, owing to the quantities of sweetmeats they were continually devouring -, and ailb to our common food, puddings made of very coarse flour, and sweetmeats, and salt water instead of fresh to moisten them; and dried beef, the best part of which was destroyed by ants, cockroches, and other vermin. We could not afford fresh water to boil the kettle once in the whole passage; so that this way of living brought the scurvy and other distempers upon 11s, which was a very melancholy state. This sickness increased upon us every day, insomuch that, out of our small number, we buried two in one day, which were yohnPopplejlcne y the armourer, and the carpenter's mate ; besides whom, the carpenter, gunner, and several others, together with some of our best negroes, died. We now laboured under the greatest misfortunes that could happen to us, the greatest part of my people being disabled, and my ship being very leaky ; and we had just at this time the ill luck to have one of our pumps split, and rendered useless : Under these unhappy circumstances were we pushed forward by favourable gales, tdl we came within eighty leagues of Guam , one of the Lair one 1 stands, where we met with dismal weather, te'mpestuous winds, varying round the compass: This was the more frightful to us, as we were not in a condition of helping ourselves, there not being above six or seven that were able to do any work, though necessity obliged even those that were extremely low and weak to lend what help they could. These boisterous gales had raffed a sea, wherein our ship laboured so much, that the knee of her head, and the whole beak-head, became loose ; so that the boltsprit fetched away, and playing with the motion of the ship, continued so to do ail the test of the time we were at sea: Our main-mast stood for some time without shrouds
to MAGELLANICA, &c, 569 shrouds on the larboard-side, till we could unlay bur 1722. best cable to make more, having knotted and spliced the old ones, till our labour was in vain. In the midst of this I was taken violently ill,- and had no expectation of living much longer, till the gout seizing me, gave me some painful hopes of the continuance of my life. In the beginning of October, we made the island oiCuam, 100 leagues short of Captain Rogers 'a account, who makes 105 degrees difference of longitude between this and Cape S(. Lucas, and we did not make quite.too degrees. We passed between the fore mentioned isle and Serpana , and saw several flying proes, but none came near us that day : We had heavy squally weather, which obliged me to keep the deck, where, in the rain, I caught a cold, which threw me into a worse condition than before, in which I continued all the time 1 was in China. The island of Guam appears very green, and is of a moderate height; the prospect of land was very agreeable to us, after having run so gneat a length; and we could, with the greatest pleasure, have stopped to have purchased some refreshments of fruits, such as lemons, Seville oranges, which would have been very good for such of us as had the scurvy : But though we were upon the point of perishing, we dared not venture in, for fear the inhabitants shoujd take the advantage of our weakness, to make some attempt upon us. The night after we had seen the island of Guam , we had our main-top-sail-split, which, as it happened, proved no loss of way; for, during several days afterwards, we had such weather, that we could bear no more than our lower canvas, which sufficiently tried the strength of our ship, which was now very much impaired. 1 shaped my course from Guam for the island of Formosa, to which we had a very long voyage, and of course a very melancholy one, since the sickness increased daily so that, by November z, when we had sight of that island, the ship and ship's company were both in a manner worn out. The next day, we doubled the south cape of that island, and Vol. III. 4 C passed
570 1722. GEORGE SHELVOGKE, passed within a league of the rocks of Vele Rete, and by them were sensible of a very strong current. The inhabitants of the island of Formosa , from the time they had sight of our vessel, made fires continually along the coast-, but we were so weak, that we did not think it prudent to put into any of their harbour^. Weslirect- ed our c'ourse from thence for the neighbouring coast of China-, and, on the 6th, found ourselves at the mouth of the river Loma , where we had twelve fathoms water. Here we saw abundance of fifhing-boats, but, the weather proving hazy, we could not plainly discover whereabouts we Were-, and therefore used all the methods we could devise, to get some of the fisoermen on board, who might pilot us to Macao-, but, as we neither understood them, nor they us, we soon found that was impracticable -, and therefore were forced to keep the land close aboard all day, and come to an anchor every evening ; which was a mighty fatigue to our ship's company, who were so universally down with the distemper reigning amongst us, that it was as much as we could do to find any one to steer the ship : Thus we were four days lost in the mist, and surpriied at the sight of a great many islands, which were omitted in our charts, on some of which we saw large fortifications : This made us believe, that the current had carrHA-ms to the southward of our port, and suggested to us every thing that might cast us down ; for, tho* the lea was covered with silhing-barks, we could not find any of them that could set us right, or give us any directions we could understand. On the 10th, towards the evening, as we were passing through a very narrow channel, between a couple of islands, a fisherman that was near'us, observing by our manner of working, that we were afraid to venture through, made signs to us with his cap to bring to, till he cams up with us: When he came, he seemed to understand, in general, that we inquired of him about the situation of Macao ; and therefore made sighs to us, that he would conduct us thither, if we would give him as man y
to MAGELLANICA, (Se: 571 many pieces of silver, as he counted little fish out of "7 22 * his_bafK.se, -which amounted to forty : We accordingly counted out forty dollars in an hat, and gave them to .him ; upon which he came into the ship, took us in charge, carried us through the narrow channel, and, at fun-set, brought us to an anchor: The next morning we weighed again, and kept the main land of China close aboard; and, at noon, he brought us abreast of Pulo Lantoen , from whence we could fee two Ehglijh ships under fail, who were pasting by the istand. of Macao , in their way from the river of Canton. They took no notice of us, and kept on their way: This made us very uneasy, fearing that we should rnifs of a passage to England this season. The next day, in the afternoon, we anchored in the road of Macao , near the entrance of the river of Canton , which we never should have found out by any of our charts. I much admire at the incorrectness*- with which these coasts are laid down to the eastward of Pulo Lantoon ; for there runs a cluster of islands, extending upwards of twenty leagues, which are not in the least taken notice of by our hydrographers ; nor did I ever meet with any navigator that knew any thing of them. The coast of China , near them, is rocky, mountainous, and barren ; but, as to the particular situation of these isles, my sickness hindered all the observation I should have made os them. Macao being a place where ships always stop for a pilot to carry them up the river of Caek- ten, I sent an officer with a compliment to the Gover- nour, and with orders to bring off a pilot with him ; but 1 heard nothing of him till the next morning, which gave me many disquiet apprehensions. On the 12th, about noon, a pilot came off to us, and we immediately weighed, and entered the river of Canton , being assured, that there still remained some European lliips at V/ampo, where they lie in this river, about ten miles short of the city of Canton. We were four days plying up to the road, between the lower bars where, finding the Bonetta and Hajling. r, two 4 C 2 Engltjb
' }1 z GEORGE SHELVOCKE, 1722. Englijh Indian traders, I anchored, and sent an officer, '^ rJ to desire them to instruct us how to behave ourselves in this port, and to acquaint me with the customs of it : To which they answered, that since the Cadogan and Francis , two European Englijh ships, were lying at Warn - po, they would advise me to send up to their factories at Canton , to acquaint them of our arrival, and the reasons which obliged me to come thither: Which J accordingly did the next day, and borrowed one of their stags, to hoist in our boat, without which we should have met with great trouble from the Hoppomen , or custom-house-officers. I sent, by my officer, letters to the captains of the Englijh ffiipS, signifying the necessity which forced me into thole parts and desired they would, as far as in them lay, succour and protect us assuring them, that I acted by virtue of his Majesty's commission, which I also sent to them, that they might peruse it. - I weighed the next morning, and worked up to IVampo , where I found, besides two Englijh ships, three French ones, viz- the Galatea, the Prince of Conti, and the Maur ; and also one OJiettder, and a small ship from Manilla. Here 1 was in hopes that all my troubles would have ended, and that 1 should have had full leisure to refresh myself after so many fatigues : But I loon found, that these expectations were very ill-ground- ed ; and that, after all the perils from which 1 had escaped, I was to fall into that which is least to be endured, I mean perils amongst false brethren. A most unlucky accident, which happened the very same evening that we anchored at IVampo, gave birth to my troubles in India , though, with respect to me, it was not only unforeseen, but absolutely unavoidable, and the pure effects of that eagerness, which possessed, all the ship's company, to get out of this part of the world at any rate. If there had been any government among th e Englijh settled here, so as that my authority might have been supported, undoubtedly this unlucky business never would have fallen out ; but, as it was, it could be imputed to nothing, but the want of such an
to MAGELLANICA, &c. 573 sn establishment. The thing, in few words, fell out 1722. thus: One of my men, whole name was David Grif- Jith, being in an hurry to remove his effects on board the Bonettcf'i boat, in which he was, happened to be chafed by an Hoppo or custom-house-boat. The fellow, being a little in liquor, and fearing they would take what silver he had from him, fired a mufquet at them, and killed an Hofpoman or custom-houfe-officer. Early the next morning, the corpse was laid at the door of the English factories ; and there were Chinese officers lying in watch for the first Englishman that came out. It happened, that a supercargo belonging to the Bonet- te was one of the first; and they immediately seized on him, carried him away, and afterwards led him about the suburbs of Canton in chains. All that could be said or done by the most considerable of the Chinese merchants, who were correspondents with the Englisn^ availed nothing. In the mean time, my man, who had committed the fact, and another, were put in irons on board the Francis , which was chopped, that is, seized, till the man guilty of the crime was delivered to them; and, when he was put into their hands, and carried to Canton in chains, the supercargo Was released. I had * not been here many days, before I was deserted by all my officers and ship's company, who were continually employed in removing their effects from on board my ship, to some of the European , contrary to my knowledge, then confined to my bed. My officers were en- gaging the Indian gentlemen in their interest, and had left my son, with a few Negroes, to look after my ship, and defend my effects, which I thought on the brink of falling into the bottomless pit of Chinese avarice. In short, the ship's company had so many ways of disposing of their effects, that it was impossible to do what I should have thought justice to the gentlemen in England. In few words, they were all soon recovered/of their illness, by the assistance they met with, and were become their own masters. . There were no magistrates to appeal to on shore, that would have done me
GEORGE SHELVOCKE. 57 + 1722. me so much service, as to have obliged them to ke£p Wn ^ to their own ship ; and my brother-officers,iCommand- ing the Englijh ihips, Could not, through fear of a misrepresentation of their actions to the India- Company by their supercargoes, afford me such an help, as, perhaps, they would have been inclined to, through a fense of their duty. But the gentlemen who presided over the trade, so little regarded it, that they had a mind to refuse me a passage in one of their ships; and, in effect, I was treated by them, as one enemy would treat another in a neutral port; for as such they looked upon me, for offering to come within the East-India Company's limits, without considering the necessities that forced me to commit that trespass. The Captains Hill and Newfham, when they came to fee me, were astonished at the ruinous appearance of my ship, and could scarce think it was possible she should have undergone so long a stretch. 1'he rottenness of our cordage, and the raggedness of our fails* filled them with admiration and pity of my condition , insomuch that, at their first visit, when 1 had given them a short history of my voyage, and desired they would receive my officers and ship's company, with their effects, they answered, That, since they plainly saw my ship was in no condition to stir any farther, upon payment of our passages, they would entertain us, as soon as we pleased. This I depended upon, and expected no further trouble, than to remove ourselves at any time ; but I found that I had, through ignorance, applied to the wrong persons; for the supercargoes were angry, that I had not sent to them, who* when ashore, are the chief men, though they are only passengers when aboard ; so that I was quite neglected, and the Englijh captains ordered to fall down with their ships five or fix miles below us. Thus was I left destitute, in the company of five foreign ships, who, seeing that my own countrymen were so careless of me, were so kind as co offer me. their service, and assisted me with what they could: And, had it not been for them,-1
to MAGELLANIC A, fcfo 575 do not know but that I might have suffered to the last 1722. degree ; for I was under perpetual apprehensions, that w '"' the Chinese had a design to seize my (hip. When the murder of the custom-houfe-oflxcer was, in a manner, forgot, there was an outrageous action committed by what they call a Little Mandarin, who, at the beginning of these troubles, had warrants given him to take all the English he should meet; which he neglected, till all was over ; But, palling by the European factories, he ordered his attendants to seize on all the English they law in the shops thereabouts; and accordingly they took nine or ten, as well French as EngHjb, and carried them away, with halters about their necks, to the Chanted?s, or Viceroy's palace in the city. Upon this, there was application made to the Hoppo; who represented matters to the Chantock in favour of the injured Europeans: Upon which, the mandarin, who was guilty of this violence, was sent for; and he, being unable to vindicate himself, was degraded from his post, bambooed, which is a severe punishment used in most of the" eastern governments, and rendered incapable of acting again; and the Europeans directly discharged. However, in the mean time, the English seem to me to be tyranized over by the Chinese , and exposed to the caprices of every magistrate which made me the more urgent to be on board one of tne European strips : and, as I had now discovered my mistake in addressing the captains, which had disgusted the supercargoes, 1 sent a letter to them, not to desire, but to demand a passage for me, my officers, and ship's company ; which, 1 was sensible, they could not refuse: And indeed they did not; but their condescension was accompanied with a charge to the India captains, not to receive any thing belonging to us, except it was consigned to the Easi- India Company in England. 1 was now informed of the Hoppo's demand for anchorage in the river. I had been long in lulpenfe upon that head, and all along apprehended, that I sliould have some extravagant exaction imposed upon me : And indeed so it happened; for
57 6 GEORGE SHELVOCKE, 1722. for they demanded 6000 tahel; and, to quicken me in the payment of it, and to shew me they were in earnest, there was a penalty annexed to this extortion, of 500 additional tahel, for every day we failed in the payment. In short, there was no means by which I could evade this unconscionable imposition. In vain I shewed the Hoppo my commission, which was also read in the Chinese tongue to him ; and to as little purpose did 1 also remonstrate, that I came with no other design, than to obtain a passage home in one of our country-ships, my own being incapable of going farther. It was insisted upon, though it was but a day before I could pollibly fend that sum up, 1 should add 500 tahel for neglect of payment; so that they received from me 6500 tahel, '2166 1 - 13 s. 4 d. Sterling a sum about six times as much as th cCadogan paid, which was the largest Englifi ship there, and measured a third more than mine. I soon after sold her for 2000 tahel; which money, and he rest of my effects, were consigned to the India- Company : And ,1 prevailed with most of my officers and ship's company to take their passages in the English homeward-bound ships. Captain Shelvoeke embarked here on board of the Ca- dogan, Captain Hill,, and then lasted for Batavia , horn Which place they proceeded on their voyage to the Cape of Good Hope, where they arrived March 1-722. We found here Governor!r Boon, in the London■ Eaft- Indiaman, and others, bound for England. From the Cape of Good Hope we had an agreeable passage to St. Helena, and from thence to England. We made the Land's End the latter end of July; and, being come into the Brilijh channel, met with brisk gales from the western quarters, with thick foggy weather. The 30th, in the evening, we anchored under Dungeness ; and, the fame night, some of the supercargoes and passengers, and myself, hired a small vessel to carry Us to Dover, where we arrived early the next morning, and, the same day, proceeded towards London, where we arrived the first of August following. Thus ended a long fatiguing
TO M A G E L L A N I C A, &c. §77 fatiguing voyage, of three years, seven months, and 1722. eleven days, after hating failed considerably more than round tine circumference of the globe ; and having undergone a great variety of troubles and hardships, both by sea and land, and made some discoveries, which, it is hoped, are worthy the notice of the curious. REMARK 8. We shall be very succinct in our remarks on this voyage, tho' there are many things which might justify a fuller and more copious criticism on the Captain's conduct. It is very clear, from the whole of this relation, that the Captain's work was interned to be what we have represented if, viz. an Apology for his own behaviour ; which was occasioned by a law-fuit commenced by the proprietors against him upon his return home. This created a great noise in the world, and people gave their opinions very freely, without perhaps entering into the merits of the cause. Captain Sheivocke, therefore, wrote this book to bring the affair before the Public, and to leave, for the judgment 'of posterity, the state of his own cafe. It must be confessed, that he has put it into a very fair light, and shewn a great deal of skill and address in finishing, to the very utmost, Inch parts of the picture as are likely to strike the reader most, and to give him strong impressions in the Captain's favour. Such are the mutinies that fell out in the beginning of the voyage ; the tedious, troublesome, and melancholy sojournment in the Island of Juan Fernandez the diligence, skill, and care, he shewed in getting a bark framed out of the wreck, and carrying off in it such a body of people, almost against their conlent, at least without their assistance ; and many more, which the reader will easily discern, without my pointing them out. But Captain Betagh , being returned from the Spanish l¥eft-Indies, thought it requisite, for his own justification, to attack Captain Sheivocke 's account almost in every part of it, as we have already shewn; all which remarks tend to Vol. III. 4 D support
57 8 GEORGE SHELVOCKE, i7 22 -support a charge which falls naturally under the three following heads : The first is, that the disputes which happened amongst the crew were of his own contriving and fomenting ; in proof of which, he alleges, that Matthew Stewart, who was at the head of all these mutinies, was absolutely Shehocke' s creature. He takes notice likewist, that this seditious temper of his crew serves- for a general excuse for every wrong step taken thro' the voyage. It was an attempt of his men to return to England , that made him do many strange things at first setting out. At St. Katharine's, he says, that they forced him to sign the new articles, or else they would have run away with the ship. Going into Chiloe, he says, was the mens fault, where they lo narrowly escaped a shipwreck. At going into Conception , a little to leeward, he says the same. At Fernandez , he fays, they forced him to divide the owners money, and enter upon the new Jamaica- discipline. Upon meeting Clipperton , he says, it was his men demanded a confirmation of the first articles with the owners, after they had made twice new ones for themselves. When he left the four men aboard the bark, where they were murdered, he fays, his people would not let him bring to till she came up; yet it was these very men, that professed themselves willing to obey him in every thing, when he put Captain Hatley on board the Mercury, and treated with scorn the objections made to his conduct, tho' founded in a desire of preserving them from the bad effects of it: It was these men, also, who thanked him for their preservation at Jua?i Fernandez ; though, if some of them may be believed upon their oaths, they might, with full as much reason, have thanked him for their shipwreck : and, after all, it was these very people macte him a present of an island in his passage home, and obstinately persisted in calling it by the name of a captain they neither loved nor Feared. Is not this very strange, and does it not prove, that these accounts are very inconsistent, and, consequently, deserve
579 to MAGELLANICA, &V. serve no great credit ? This, I fay, is Captain Betaghh^oa- way of reasoning; of the justice of which, the reader will decide as he fees cause. The second head of the accusation is, as to the money taken in the Conception, and funk in the unaccountable article of an et cœtera. This was not only a fraud upon the owners, but a fraud, that, after all his quarrels with them, he durst trust to his whole ship's ■company, which seems to speak a greater confidence in them, than might be expected from the character given them in the Captain's book. If he really thought the loss of his strip pm an end to the claim of his proprietors, why did he conceal the taking of this large sum of money, since, if he believed his own notion rightly founded, the owning it could do him no hurt ? On the other hand, when he had concealed it, what hopes could he have of its remaining a secret, unless, notwithstanding all he has said of his crew, he was satisfied they would not mqke any discovery of this important point? The pasting over of which gives a great jealousy that other matters are not very fairly stated. To which may be added, the palpable misrepresentations of the unfortunate Captain Qippertcn, and the suppressing the true cause of his leaving them-, viz. because Captain Shehoke , and his company, would not comply with their original articles, and, consequently, were no longer to be considered as men acting on the fame bottom with those in the Success , who had made these articles the conliant rule of their conduct. The last, and by much the worst, head of this accusation is, that of sacrificing his people, that he might manage his own designs more easily, gain greater sums on the sharing of Prizes, and keep the secrets of his administration in fewer hands. There is something so barbarous in this supposition, that one would be tempted to think it incredible, if one had not Captain Sbel- 'voch's authority to the contrary, who, by blaming Captain Ciipperton for this very behaviour, admits, that there are some English Captains capable of such 4 D 2 things. \
5 8o 1722. W-yW GEORGE SHELVOCKE, things. A circumstance shocking to every honest mind. Captain Betagh, in order to support this heavy charge, produces the following account of what became of the people who were originally put on board the Speedwells under the command of Captain Shelvocke, being in all 106 men, Out of these, fays Mr. Betagh, there were turned ashore, at St. lago and St. Catharine'd, before we got into the Soutb-Seas, eight, Andrew PedJar , chief mate ; Henry Chapman, third mate, Charles Turner, gunner ; Henry Hudson, boatswain ; William Parsons, and William Com, boatswain's mates; George Hints, and Charles Perry, seamen. Commanded ashore near Conception, in Chili, where they. were murdered, three, John Eady, midshipman; John Daley, and George Abcigne, marines. Sent a cruising, to be taken prisoners, fifteen, Simon Hatley , second Captain of the Speedwell-, William Betagh, Captain of marines ; Gilbert Hamilton, ensign ; John Sfrake, second mate ; Nicholas Laming boatswain ; Chrijlopher Preffick, surgeon's Erst mate; Robert Cobbs, serjeant of marines, Matthew Applcton, Martin Hayden, Richard Bond, Richard Gloyns, John Panther, Seamen ; John Wilson , John Nicholson, and Thomas Barnet, Marines. Ordered on a cruise, in a bark, with one week's provision, and obliged then to surrender on the coast, eleven, James Hopkins, third mate ; Robert Rawlins, Midshipman; William Dobson, Thomas Wilkinson, Edward Osting, John Bone, Charles Weaiherly, William Kitching, Richard Cross, John Gauther, and John Gaudy, Seamen. Left on Fernandez, eleven, besides thirteen Indians, John Wisdom, Joseph Monro, William Blew, John Riddleclay, Edmund Hyves, Daniel Harvey, William Giddy, John Robinson, Thomas Hawkes, James Row, and Jacob Bow- den, seamen. Left, in a prize, and murdered, four, John Giles, serjeant of marines; John Emlin, seamen ; John Williams, marine; George Chappie, a lad. Sent ashore, into the hands of the enemy, without an hostage, and never fince heard of, six, Edward Brook , first lieutenant; WilliamTamly , midshipman ; Frederick Mackenzie,
to MAGELLANICA. 58, Mackenzie , Robert Bowman, Richard Philips, and Johmizz. Poulten , seamen. Begged their passage with Clipper - /o", to be freed from Shelvocke' s tyranny, three, "james Hendrie , agent for the owners-, Thomas Dodd , lieutenant of marines ; and William Morphew , midshipman. Died four, Richard Arscot, in the Speedwell and £i- Philips, in Shelvocke's bark ; William Campbell , drowned, going round Cape Horn -, and Richard Hannah, drowned,' going to the wreck from Fernandez Island. Deserted at St. Catharine's,, three, Abraham Dutour, Anthony IVcod, and William Leveret. Staid on board the Ruby, at St. Catharine's, two, William Mariner, sail-maker j and Laurence Lancette, of the carpenter's crew. Loft ashore at P'ayta, Richard Bavin. Deserted at Ckiloe, Robert Morris. In all seventy-three. Staid with Shelvocke, and divided all, thirty-three ; whsiffi taken together, makes the total of the ship's compkny one hundred and six. It is certain, that all these instances are far enough from being positive evidences of the charge before mentioned ; but it must be at the fame time allowed, that they are abundant instances of carelessness and indiscretion: For, after an officer had once met with such a misfortune as losing part of his crew, either by fending them on shore, or exposing them in prizes, it ought to have rendered him excessively cautious for the future ; more especially when Captain Betagh had told him, in the face of his men, that the true design of putting him on board the Mercury, was to get rid of him. Upon the whole, the affair had so indifferent an aspect, and the proprietors thought themselves so much injured by the loss of all the expences they had been at in sitting out these ships, that they took every method possible to embarrass and "distress Captain Shelvocke on his return. He was, at the fame time, attacked by the Spanijh minister, who presented to the late king George I. at Hanover , a memorial, complaining of his attacking and taking a Spanift) ship worth 1 co,000 pieces of eight, sii breach of the treaties between the two
582 GEORGE SHELVOCKE, 1722, two crowns. But, after all, there does not seem to have been any just foundation for this complaint, the Spaniards themselves having been the aggressors ; and there is no law so cruel as to oblige a man to suffer his crew to be killed, and his strip beaten to pieces, rather than dispute the power of those, who are inclined to so barbarous an action. The then administration seem to have been sensible of this ; for we do not find that they directed any prosecution against the Captain for this conduct, as at that time they certainly would have done, if they had conceived him punisiiable by law. As to the disputes between him and his owners, I know not how they ended big, very probably, in a way little satisfactory to either, since such prosecutions as they carried on must have given Mr. Sbelvocke a great deal of trouble, at the same time they could not in the least contribute to the repairing of their loss. The worst of it was, that the issue qf this voyage gave the public a bad idea of all expeditions to the South - Sea, and induced many to suppose, that whatever offers were made of that kind, on the disputes that happened afterwards between us and Spain , were calculated purely for the private advantage of the persons by whom they were propounded : And I doubt, that somewhat of this fort still prevails; for otherwise, surely, something had been undertaken before this time by privateers in the South-Seas. It cannot be denied, that this was, al most in every respect, an ill-conducted, as well as an unsuccessful expedition ; and yet, if we examine things closely, we sliallsee that there is no reason to be discouraged by the unluc- kiness of this attempt. There is a light, in which this voyage may be viewed, that will afford quite another kind of prospect. It is a fact not to be controverted, that the Speedwell made her voyage round Cape Horn into the South-Seas, and took afterwards abundance of prizes on the coasts of Chili, Peru , and Mexico, without the least assistance from her consort. This then furnishes us with the following observations, that it is puiuL^e
to MAGELLANICA, &c. Z8z possible for a fliip of 200 tons, with 100 stout men on 17221 board, under proper officers, to make such an expedi- W ' J tion into these seas, as may prove very advantageous to them, and to their owners; for, according both to Captain Sbelvocke and Captain Betagb' s account, the expence of this ffiip did not much exceed 6000 /. and the profits of the voyage, if prudently and honestly managed, could not have amounted to less than 50,000 I. If therefore we consider this cafe as it is now stated, instead of frightening, it ought to encourage us to undertakings of a like kind ; for, if such a ffiip so indifferently manned, subject to perpetual mutinies, and without any just regard to the true interests of the voyage, could perform so much, and the principal officers on board her come off so well, it is a natural conclusion, that a ffiip of the same force, well manned and properly commanded, might do much more, and return safe. If we suffer our opinions to be governed purely by events, we may come to fancy, that the greatest naval power in the world can perform little by sea, because, perhaps, some instances may be given in some certain period of time, wherein something like this may have happened ; but, alas! this is a very wild way of reasoning, and we may, with the same justice, imagine, that, because a stout man does not resent a scratch on the forehead in his steep, he could . not avenge himself, if awake, upon the feeblest of his enemies. To fay the truth, it is such notions as these that keep us asieep. One such expedition, as that of Captain Rogers , proves more in favour of our sending ffiips to the South-Seas, than ten such unlucky adventures as this can prove against it; for these only ffiew, that, when commanders disagree, and their men become mutinous, mistake follows upon mistake, till all falls to ruin : Which is a lesson that may be learnt, without going to the South-Seas; and therefore com eludes nothing as to the point in question. ARTICLE
L84 COMMODORE ROGGEWEIN, 1721 V*Y>J ARTICLE IX. ROGGEWEIN, to Polynesia and Australasia. This voyage was written by a German , a native of Meckknburgh , in the French language. He was ser- jeant-major of the troops aboard Roggewein's fleet. Flis journal was printed at the Hague , in 2 vols. 12 mo, 1739. It was the father of our Roggewein who first projected this voyage, which was executed by the son, who had been a counsellor of justice at Batavia .. IIERE is, perhaps, no country in the world, J_ Where commerce is either more honourable, or more profitable, than in Holland , or where, at the fame time, there is a greater respect (hewn to it by the government; for, as the republic chiefly subsists by trade, every thing that relates to it, is considered as an affair of a public nature, which deserves the quickest and strictest attention. The great companies in Holland, are, as in other parts of Europe , destructive to trade, considered in some lights; but very necessary to it, when considered in others. The Weft- India company was originally elected in the year 1621, and held, by an exclusive charter, the commerce on the coast of Africa , from the tropic of Cancer , to the Cape of Gosd-Hope ; and, in America, from the south- point of Newfoundland, by the straits of Magellan , or of le Maire, to the supposed Strait of Anian, including both the North and South-Seas. The directors were divided into five chambers, and consisted, in the whole, of seventy-two persons, out of whom eighteen were again chosen for the administration of the compa-
t o AUSTRALASIA, &c. 5$5 tiy's affair 1 ;, to whom a nineteenth was added by theiyai. states-general. i he affairs of this company were once in so flourishing a condition, that they were not only on a level, but, in some measure, superiour to the Eaft-bidia company, which was owing to the happy success of their affairs ac sea ; for, in the ye^r 1629, their admiral, Peter Haines , took the Sfanijb plate fleet, which was immensely rich, and brought it into Holland. J hey made themselves mailers of the greatest part of Brasil, and were so considerable, that the great Count Maurice of Nassau did not think it beneath him to accept of a commission from this company, to be governour-general of Brafil-, which, however, after it had cost them immense sums to defend, they at last lost. ■The Term of their charter was limited to twenty- four years, which, in 1647, being expired, was renewed for twenty-flve more ; during which time, their affairs grew very perplexed, so that towards the close of that term, they were content, that it should be dissolved ; and, in the year, 1674, a new company was e- recledgwith pretty near the same powers, by letters- patent from the states-gtneral; which company has subsisted ever since with great reputation. The capital ot this new company consists of six millions of florins, which make about six hundred thousand pounds of our money ; and the limits of their authority are, the coasts of Africa and America \ that is to fay, all the establishment of the Dutch , in those countries, are under their direction ; so that whoever proposes any new scheme, for the improvement of commerce in those paits, must necessarily apply himlelf to that company. It was this that induced Mr. Rcggewein, a gentleman of great parts ana penetration, to rrame a project for the discovery of that vast continent, and the many islands which are supposed to iie in the southern part of the globe, and of .v hich the world has hitherto had but very imperfect notice from others ; which pro- vol. m. ject,
§86 COMMODORE ROGGEWEIN, 1 7 21 • jest, rogether with the reasons in support of it, and a pian for carrying his designed discovery into execution, he presented to the East-India company in 1696. by whom it was very well received, and he was assured of having all the assistance he could desire or expect, as soon as the affairs of the company would permit: But the disturbances that soon after followed, put a stop to the company's good intentions ; and, before any thing could be done, Mr. Roggewein breathed his last. He was a gentleman of the province of Zealand, who, from his youth, had addicted himself to mathematical studies, and had a true zeal for the service of his country ; of which he gave many proofs, and perhaps none, that, in his own judgemeht, was so great as the framing this scheme ; at least, we have reason so to believe, since, upon his death-bed, he recommended it to his son, and exacted from him a-promise that, at a time convenient, he would endeavour in person to execute what himself had proposed. The young gentleman, after his father's decease, applied himself to his studies with the utmost vigour, and made so happy a proficiency in them, as to qualify himself for the post of counsellor in the court of Justice at Batavia, whither he went, and resided there many years. After his return from the Ecst-Indies , in which he had acquired a handsome fortune, he bethought himself of performing the promise he made his father on his death bed ; and, in the year 1721, presented a memorial to the West-India company, setting forth, that, at such a time, his father had proposed discovering the southern continent and island ; which proposal they had been pleased to accept, and he was now ready to perform. The company received this memorial with the fame r adiness they did his father's ; and, as their affairs were now in better order, they acquainted Mr. Rcgge-ivcin, that they would immediately give directions tor equipping iucst'a squadron as might be neces- saiy for executing his design. It consisted of three stiips j
to AUSTRALASIA, &c. 4 S; ships % viz. the Eagle, of z6 pieces of canon, andipr. x 11 men, commanded by Captain Job Coster, on board of which embarked the Commodore : The Tienbovsn of 28 pieces of canon, and 100 men, commanded by Captain James Bowman ; The African galley, of 14 pieces of canon, and 60 men, commanded by Captam Henry Rosenthall. This small squadron sailed from the port of Amsterdam the 16th of July, in the same year; and arrived happily, in the space of 36 hours, in the Texel. Before we proceed farther, it is requisite, that 1 should acquaint the reader, that we stand indebted tor the journal of this voyage to the gentleman who commanded the land-forces that were on board the Commodore, whose name, I am not at liberty to mention, or that of another person, who made the voyage, and from whom 1 have received considerable assistance. The nature of the expedition is sufficient to recommend it to the perusal of the curious ; and the many remarkable particulars it contains, with regard to the state of the Dutch company's affairs in the Indies, will, I dare fay, justify what 1 think myself obliged to say of it ; that it is at once as instructive and as entertaining apiece in its kind, as 1 ever perused. As soon as the ships could be provided with every thing necessary for so long a voyage, they sailed, which was on the 21st of August 1721, with a fair wind ; which, however, changed the next day, and obliged them to spend three days beating through the channel. They continued their course to the south-west, in order to gain the coast os Barbary ; but were prevented by a great storm, which did them much damage. To this succeeded a stark calm ; during which, the waves ran mountain-high, as having not yet lost that agitation into which they had been put by the late high - wind. I his brought upon them new mischiefs ; one of their vessels lost its main-top and mizen-mast, and, in the Commodore, the main-fail yard came down, with such force as wounded several people upon deck, and all this from the roiling of the ship ; so that our author concludes, that, in the Spanish there is in- 4 E 2 infinitely
5 ss commodore roggewein, 1721.infinitely more danger from the sudden calm, which usually follows a storm, than from the wildest tempest ; insomuch that he positively declares, that, in the Baltic; and other northern leas, in which he had often failed, he never met with any f tempest comparable to this ; which he attributes to the deepness of the sea, supposing, that the greater the mass of water, the longer, when once put in motion, that motion lasts. But, as this is a conjecture only, I presume to offer the reader another reason ; which is, the nearness of the snores, or opposite coasts, in the Mediterranean ; for, as we sec in a bason that has been shook, the motion of the water remains alter the bason'stands still lo it is plain, that the violence of* the motion is greater in proportion to the smallness of the vessel, because the strokes from the opposite side are repeated quicker, and the water has Ids room to play. After two days the wind freshened, and they began to recover tl e satieties they had sustained : During that space of time, th- y continued to steer south-west, in; hopes or gaining the Canaries-, and diverted themselves, with obleiving the manner in which the flying-fisti endeavours to escape its enemies, the aibicores and bo- nitoes. The Hying fish is not much bigger than an herring, and the sins it flies with, are, for strength the texture, not unlike the wings of a bat. The Dutch sailors esteem them very good food, and, therefore, are never better pleased, than when they meet with plenty of them. The bunko is a filh about two feet long, of a greyish colour, and finely streaked from head to tail; the flesh dry, hard, and of a disagreeable taste. The albicore resembles the bonito in every respect, except " its size ; for the albicore is, generally speaking, five or six feet long, and weighs sometimes 1501b. They law likewise lome water-fowl, and particularly teal, which the seamen always account a sign of the land's being near. At last, finding themselves in the latitude of 28 degrees, they expected they should have seen very soon some
to AUSTRALASIA, &c. 589 iome of the Canary Islands ; when, of a sudden, the 1721, man at the mast-head, informed them, that he disco- Wv> vered a sail, which carried Eng/ijb colours. As soon as they drew near enough to discern their motions, they p; rceived that she struck her colours, and bore away from them. In about an hour's time the appeared again, with four fail more in her company, which sometimes carried white, and sometimes black, and, ac last, red colours; which gave reason to suspect, that they were pirates. The Commodore immediately made the signal for a line of battle ; all. hands were 'employed in making a clear ship, in filling grenades, and preparing every thing that was necessary for the ensuing engagement, in which they were so lucky as to have the advantage of the wind. The pirates, observing this disposition, immediately put themselves in a fighting posture ; and began by slinking their red, and hoisting a blackjjilag, with a death's head in the centre,a powder-horn over it, and two bones across underneath. They likewise formed a line ; and, in an hour's time, the action began. The pirates fought briskly for some time, supposing them to be merchantmen -, but, after a dispute of two hours, and perceiving that the Com- modere sought to board the vessel with which he was engaged, they spread all the canvas they could, and crouded away as fast as possible. The Dutch Commodore cried out, as soon as he saw them bearing away, Let the Rascals go : In which he strictly obeyed his instructions ; for all the Dutcb ships, belonging to their East and Wefl-India companies, have strict orders never to give chace, but to pursue their course. It is true, that sometimes their Captains neglect this order; but it is at their peril, and they are always made answerable for the consequences on their return home. This unlucky accident cost the squadron a great ma- . ny men. In the Commbdore they had four killed, a- mong whom was a quarter-master, and nine wounded; a d there were seven killed, and twenty-iix wounded, n the other two ssiips. The carpenters likewise sound ' them-
59 o COMMODORE ROGGEWEIX, 1721. selves fully employed in stopping leak?, and repairing W>J the damage they had received. As soon as this was. done, which was by the 15th of November, they continued their voyage, and arrived in sight of the island of Madcria , which afforded a beautiful prospect at a distance. There is good anchorage on its coasts, where wood and water may be conveniently taken in ; but, notwithstanding this, the Dutch East and West- India strips rarely touch there. In the neighbourhood of Madtria , they saw a dei'art island, which is much frequented by pirates, who wood and water there, and obtain other refreshments. They had likewise a sight of the Pike of Teneriff. , at the distance of about twenty- five leagues. This is generally esteemed the highest mountain in the world, which is the reason that geographers place there the first meridian; a custom, however, from which many of the moderns vary, but with which the globe and map-makers in Holland constantly comply, believing, that, from this regularity, they derived great advantages. On the other hand, the French and English, of late years especially, incline to fix the first meridian in their respective maps at Paris , or at London % which creates great confusion in the longitude of places, when this distinction is not previously taken notice of by the writers who make use of such maps. King Lewis the XHIch of France endeavoured to prevent this inconvenience by an edict, dated April 2^, 1634, by which he directed the first meridian to be placed in the istand of Fero, the most westward of the Canaries. From these islands they continued steering southwest, for those of the Cape de Verd, of which they had likewise a sight. This Cape Verd, or Green Cape, is a point in Africa, or rather a mountain, (hooting forth into the Sea, which Ptolemy calls ArVtnariam. It was discovered by the Portugueje in the year 1474, in the reign of Alphonfus the Vth ; it is bounded by the two rivers Gambia and Senega, formerly called Stackiris and Garatitts. Nothing
to AUSTRALASIA, &c. 591 Nothing remarkable happened in the voyage after 1721. leaving Cape de Ferd , till their arrivel at St. Sebastian in the latitude 24 degrees, and longitude 60, on the coast of Brasil where they laid in a stock of fresh provisions, and wooding and watering* After leaving the coast of Brasil , the Commodore proposed visiting the island of Aukes Magdeland , so called from its first discoverer, who, about one hundred years ago, saw a light in that island, which is said to be situated in the latitude of 30 degrees south -, but did not go on shore. As the situation of this island must have been very advantageous, and in a good climate, the Commodore intended to settle a colony there, for the service of such ships as should afterwards be bound xo the southern Indies y that by this means, they might obtain wood, water, and other refreshments, without being obliged to touch at any of the countries subject to the Portuguese. He found it, however, absolutely impracticable, because, in spite of all the pains he could take, he never could discover that, or any other island, in or near the latitude of 30 degrees; which obliged him to change his course, and to steer towards the New Istands, so called by th a Dutch-, but, by a French privateer, that first discovered them, named St. Lewis. The squadron prosecuted its voyage very happily, by continuing always within 40 and 50 leagues of the American ftiore, by which they enjoyed the benefit of the land and sea winds; whereas, if they had kept farther from land, they would have infallibly fallen in with the west monsoon. On the 21 st of December, when they were in the latitude of 40 degrees south, they were surprised by an hurricane, attended with thunder and lightning. All they could do was to furl their sails, and lie at the mercy of the winds and waves : The sea ran so very high, that they expected every moment to be swallowed. In this storm they were separated from the Tienhoven , and did not meet with her again till three months afterwards, The violence of the hurricane lasted
59 2 COMMODORE ROGGEWEIN, 1721,lasted about four hours, but was not entirely over in w '-' some clays. It was very happy for the Commodore, that, in spite of the prodigious force of the wind, his malts stood firm. These hurricanes are extremely dangerous, and snips often founder through their violence. They are far more frequent in the Weft, than they are in the East Indies. They happen usually at one season of the year, particularly when the west monsoon reigns, which is from the 20th of July to the 15th of October. For this reason, on coasts where they are frequent, vessels often continue in port, till they ia.a- gine they have nothing of this kind to fear. But, aS storms of this fort are not exactly per odical, and as there are some years in which happen no hurricanes at all, ships trusting to such calculations, or to certain pretended prognostics, are very often caught. As soon as the hurricane was entirely over, the Com- modore, and his consort the African Galley, continued a south-fouth west course, till, by the assistance of the land-winds, they were in the height of the Straights of Magellan. There they discovered an istand of near 200 leagues in circumference, and at the distance of about fourscore leagues from the main land of America and, as they saw no smoke, nor any boat, or other embarkation, on the coast, they concluded that it was uninhabited- A French privateer discovered the west coast of it, and called it the istand of St. Lewis ; bur the Dutch observing its many capes fancied them to be so many different islands-, and therefore bestowed on them the name of the Flew Istands. This squadron first discovered the istand all round, and particularly the east coast of it the first visible points of which they named the points of Rof-nthall , because they were first discovered by a captain of that name, who commanded the African Galley ' the uttermost eastern point they called New-Year's Cape , being discovered upon that day* This istand lying in the latitude of 52 degrees south, and in the longitude of 95 degrees, they called it Bel- gia.
to AUSTRALASIA, &c. 593 gia Hujlralis, because, whenever it comes to be inha- 17U. bited, such as dwelt thereon will be strictly and pro- perly Antipodes to the inhabitants of the Low Countries. The land appeared extremely beautiful, and very fertile: It was chequered with mountains and valleys, all of which were clothed with very fine straight trees. The verdure of the meadows, and the frelbnefs of the woods, afforded a most delightful prospect, insomuch that all thelhips companies agreed, that, it they had landed, they should have found excellent fruits: But the Commodore would not allow them to land, for fear of losing time; and, from an apprehension, that any delay might hinder his getting round Cape Horn, he therefore chose tq defer a thorough examination of this new country, rill he should return from the discovery of the southern continents and islands ; but that, alas!, however reasonable, proved, as in the sequel we (hall see, a vain expectation, because he was obliged to return home with his squadron by the Eafi-Indies, This fine island, therefore, is like to continue still, in a great measure, unknown; and the Commodore regretted e"cdsively his not laying hold of that fair opportunity of spending a few days there, which, perhaps, might have produced the fixing a colony on that island; from whence, without doubt, many o r her considerable discoveries might, in a short time, have been conveniently made. Quitting this island, they returned to the mouth of the Straights of Megellan, in order to wait there for a wind favourable to their navigation; and, in a few days, it very luckily changed ; for, if it had continued to blow from the west, they could not possibly hav> obtained their passage into the South Seas, This they were resolved to attempt by the Straights of Le. Maire , because this last passage is infinitely more commodious than that of Magellan, where the sea has but small depth, and the north and south currents, by th eir meeting, occasioned constant rough leas. Add to this, that the bottom is rocky, and affords no good Vol. III. 4 K anchorage
594 COMMODORE ROGGEWEIN, 1722. anchorage-, and that the flaws from the mountains on both k- " v ' w sides indanger all ships that venture into those perilous straights: But having, as is before observed, a fair wind, they continued their course to the South, in order to pass the Straights of Le Make. In their way they saw abundance of whales, and other large fish of that kind : amongst the rest, they were followed for a whole month by that kind of fish which the Dutcb sailors call the Sea Devil. They took the utmost pains, to catch it, but to no purpose. It has a large head, a thick short body, and a very long tail, like that which painters bestow on the dragon. Arriving at length in the height of 55 degrees, they began to conceive they could not be far distant from the mouth of the Straights, and immediaiely after they saw Slate/land, which makes one side of them. The'fury of the waves, and the clashing of contending currents, gave such terrible shocks to their vessels, as made them reel in such a manner, that they expected every moment their yards would have broken, and their masts come by the board. In this situation they would have been glad to come to an anchor, especially when they found, by sounding, that the bottom was very good; but the weather was ib rough as not to permit it. They passed the Straights, which are about ten leagues in length, and six over, where they are the broadest, with a swiftness not to be expressed, which was owing to the force of a current. These currents without the straights., joined to a strong west wind, carried them out a great way from the coast of Ameri- and that they might be lure to get round Cape Horn, they sailed as high as the latitude of 62 degrees 30 .minutes. There, tor three weeks together, they Unstained the most deeadful gusts of a furious west wind, accompanied with hail, snow, and the most piercing frost. They were very apprehensive, lest the violence of the wmo might, while they were inveloped with thick milts, have driven them upon mountains of b e, which n.uit have e& poled their,-to -certain shipwreck.
to AUSTRALASIA, &c. 595 wreck. Whenever the weather was a little serene, 1722. they had scarce any night at all; for, being the midst of January, the summer was at its height in that climate, and the days at their utmost length. These mountains of ice, of which they were so much afraid, were visible from the height ot Cape Horn ; and are certain proofs, that those southern countries extend quite to their pole, as well as those under the north : for, without question, such vast hills of ice cannot either be produced in the sea, or formed by the common force of cold. It must therefore be concluded, that they are occasioned by the violence of currents, and of sharp piercing winds, blowing our of gulfs, or the mouths of large rivers. Iris, on the other side, no less certain, that the currents discerned in this ocean proceed ail from the mouths of rivers, which, rolling down from an high continent, fall into the sea with such impetuosity* that they preserve a great part of their Force, even after they have entered it. The great quantity of birds that are seen here, is an aditional proof, that land cannot be far off. It may be demanded, whether this continent is inhabited or not: For may part, fays the author, the affirmative seems the most probable to me. It may, possibly, be asked, how it can be imagined, that men should live in such a climate as that of 70 degrees, where the winter is so very long, the summer so short, and where, for great part of the year, they must be involved in perpetual night ? To this 1 answer, that such as dwell here, come hither only in the sine season, in order to fiih, and retire on the approach of winter,, as many of the subjects of the Rujsian empire, and the inhabitants of Davits Straights, who, after they have thoroughly provided themselves with fish on the coasts of a frozen climate, retire further within land, and eat, during the winter, in their cabins, the fish they have taken in the summer. 1 fay farther, fays he, that if th^ people who are to be met with in Greenland and Davis s Straights are to be relied on, they inform us, 4 F 2 that
596 COMMODORE ROGGEWEIN, 1722. that the country is inhabited, even to the height of 70 . w '""' deg. in winter as well as in summer-, and what is practicable in one country, cannot justly be reputed incredible when supposed in another. The contrary winds having driven these Dutch ships 500 leagues from the continent, the Commodore believed, that he was now beyond Cape Horn , and therefore steered north-east and by north, in order to fall in with the coast of Chili. After continuing this course for three weeks, and seeing no land, they began to conclude, that they had not doubled Cape Horn , but had stood away northerly too soon. On the 10th of March, however, being in the latitude of 37 degrees 30 minutes, they discovered, to their great joy, the long wished for coast of Chili , and soon after anchored on the coast of the island Mocha , which is three leagues from the continent. They were in hopes of finding on this istand, at least, a part of the refreshments they wanted, but more e-- specially fresh meat and herbs; but, to their great surprise, were disappointed, by perceiving it entirely a- bandoned, and that all its inhabitants had transported themselves to the main land. They law, however, upon the island, a multitude of horses and birds ; and, in two cabins near the Ihore, they found some dogs. Upon a stricter and closer search, they discovered the wreck of a Sfanijh ship, from whence they conluded the dogs had got on shore. As to the horses, they concluded that they were left there to graze, and that their owners came at certain times from the main to take them up, as they had occasion for them. They killed abundance of geese and ducks; and, after having traversed every part of the country, finding the coast extremely rocky, and no place where they could anchor with safety, they resolved to put to sea again without delay. but, before they executed this resolution, the Com- 'modore held a council with his officers, in order to consider how they should proceed, and what cootse was to be taken next; in which it was determined to continue,
to AUSTRALASIA, &c. 597 tistue, for some time, on the coast of Chili, in hopes of 1722. meeting with some port where they might anchor with safety-, and get some refreshments. This resolution, however, they afterwards laid aside, because they perceived the Spaniards every-where upon their guard, and their coasts so well provided, that it would have been ■dangerous for them to have made any attempt. They likewise observed, that, notwithstanding the country of Chili appeared extravagantly high at a distance, yet, as they sailed along shore, they discovered it was not higher than the English coast, and that they had been led into this mistake by the prodigious height of the mountains behind it; the tops of which were hid in the clouds, and covered with perpetual snows. After much deliberation, the Commodore and galley, which no storms could ever separate from him, steered west- north-wcst for the island of 'Juan Fernandez, at the distance, as they apprehended, of about ninety leagues. As they had a favourable wind, they made way at a great rate, so that on the 4th day the y had fight of the island, but could not come to an anchor in the road, by. reason of its falling calm. The next day, when they were just ready to go in, they saw, to their excessive suprize, a ship riding there. At first sight, they conjectured, that she was either a Spani/h ship of force, or a French interloper; but, upon more mature consideration, they concluded, she must be a pirate. While they were consulting what was best to be done, they saw the shallop, belonging to the ship, in the road, making towards them, with a Spanijb flag ; upon which they prepared for an engagement; but their amazement was not to be described, when, on its nearer approach, some of the sailors cried out, that it was the shallop of the Tienhoven, their consort, separated from them three months before in the storm, and which they concluded had been buried in the waves. Captain Bowman himself was in the shallop, who, upon this occasion, shewed how well he deserved the trust that had been reposed in him; for, by the Com mo- • dore's
598 COMMODORE ROGGEWKIN, 1722. dore's orders, in cafe of a separation, this was to bd the first place of rendezvous and, after cruising for fix weeks, they were to repair to the height of 28 degrees south latitude, and to cruise there for the fame space of time; bur, in cafe they failed in meeting the Commodore in both places, they were then to open their sealed instructions, delivered with their commissions, and to pursue them exactly. As soon as Capt. Bowman was on board, he made the signal agreed on with his own ship, in order to acquaint them, that these two ships were their consorts -, so that, entering into the harbour, they saluted each other reciprocally with five pieces of cannon. As loon as they had leisure to enter into particulars, the Captain gave them an account of all that had happened lince their separation. He acquainted them with the dangers he had run thro' in palling the Straits of Magellan , what storms and tempests he had met with on the coast of America-, and, in the end, freely acknowledged, that he concluded the Commodore, and the African galley, were both lost in the hurricane, and never expected to fee them more. He likewise told them, that his ship was in a very bad condition, and that he arrived in this road only the evening before. After hearing this, the captains dined very chearfully together on board the Tienhoven , where they commiserated their past misfortunes, and rejoiced at their present meeting in safety. As there still continued a dead calm, it was impossible for them to come to an anchor in the place where they intended, and therefore they were obliged to remain that night in fourscore fathoms water-, but the next day they got up close by the 'Tienhoven , where they anchored in forty fathoms water, that vessel lying within mulquet- shot of the shore. As soon as the ships were brought to an anchor, they hoisted out their shallops, in order to fend the sick on store, as well as to look for provisions and refreshments : And as soon as the men landed, who were appointed to take a view of the island, and amongst whom the
• to AUSTRALASIA, &c.' 599 the author was one, they began to consider the pro- J722. perest method for collecting together what might be necessary towards forming cabins or huts for the ule of the sick : Accordingly they got together a great quantity of oat-straw, with which they thatched the huts, that were soon run up with green boughs. This may reasonably surprise the reader, who probably might not expect to hear of oats in an uninhabited illand : And, indeed, the author does not pretend to account for their coming there ; for he fays plainly, that it was a doubt with him, whether they grew there of themselves, or had been sowed. He speaks likewise of mustard-sced and turneps, but complains that the latter were very bitter. In the course of these voyages, we have met with several descriptions of these islands of 'Juan Fernandez ; and therefore we shall dispense here with some of the Dutch author's remarks ; but there are others of too great importance to be slighted, especially when we consider the design with which they were made. According, therefore, to this writer, the larger island of Juan Fernandez is one of the finest and best- situated countries in the world ; the climate equally pleasant and wholesome; the air so temperate and sweet, as to restore health to the sick, and give a constant flow of spirits to those that are well; which the author himself experienced by recovering here from a bad state of health, and a complication of distempers. The hills are covered with tall trees of different kinds, fit for all sorts of uses ; and the valleys are so fruitful, as to produce, with a very little cultivation, all the necessaries of life. The Dutch Commodore, having attentively considered the advantageous situation, and the many conveni- encies this island afforded, immediately conceived a design of settling it, as the most proper place that could be thought of, for affording shelter and refreshment to ships bound, as he was, to southern lands: And he was encouraged particularly to persevere in this design, From the consideration of the island's feitility, which, as
6oa COMMODORE ROGGEWEIN, 1722. as our author ohferves, allowed them no reason to U ' Y ' J doubt, that it would afford sufficient subsistence for 600 families at least: However, this, .like the settlement of Belgia Aujlralis , was put off to their return ; by which accident it happened, that neither of these islands was settled at all. It must be allowed, that both these projects of the Dutch Commodore were every way wife and prudent, and shewed how fit a man he was to execute what his father had designed ; for, by the help of these two colonies, undoubtedly the Southern Indies had been, by this time, effectually discovered. The former settlement would have afforded a proper place for ships to careen in, and relit, after so long a voyage as from Europe to the Straits of Magellan ; and the latter would have furnished them with all imaginable conveniencies for repairing whatever injuries they might have received by so bazardpus a passage as that round Cape Horn. I therefore venture to pronounce it the best-laid scheme for promoting southern discoveries^ that ever yet entered the head of man; and I make no manner of question, that whatever nation shall revive and prosecute Mr. Roggewein's plan, will become, in a few years, master of as rich and profitable a commerce, as the Spaniards have from their own country to Mexico and Peru, or the Portuguese to Brc.fil. As they were now ready to enter on the discoveries, the hopes of which had brought them into those seas, it was but natural for the Commodore, and his princi- cipal officers, to lay before the (hip's company a part of the reasons, which induced them to believ^ their pains and labour would not be thrown away. Our author has preserved the substance of those discourses, which are, beyond question, the most valuable part of his book, inasmuch as they distinguish between wanderers or adventurers, who know not what they seek, and such as have a real title to the honourable name of discoverers, as going in actual search of what their prudent foresight has (hewed them might be found ; and also plentifully reward their trouble in finding. The main
to AUSTRALASIA, &c. main end proposed, in such states as subsist by commerce, with regard to discoveries, is the finding such countries as may take off their commodities, and be in a condition to furnish them with as valuable in return. It is agreeable to reason, and justified by experience, that countries excessively cold, are generally barren ; and that those which are immoderately hot, are not the most fruitful: It follows therefore, that the middle climates are, by the laws of nature, the nr.st fruitful. In order therefore to distinguish those, we are to remember that, in the height of 66 degrees, 30 minutes, the days are twenty-four hours long -, and consequently the middle climate, which geographers have distinguished in their tables for the fifth, will be found in the height of 38 degrees. If this appears agreeable to reason, it seems to be put out of doubt, when we join the arguments derived from experience ; for it must be allowed, that such provinces of Barbary , Per- sia, Syria , Chaliea , and Indojlan, as well as the id nds Candia, Cyprus, and Japan, which lie all in this climate, that is to fay, from the thirtieth to the thirty- fixth degree of latitude, are the richest, pleasantest, and most fruitful countries in the world. The lame thing is remarkable jn the country of Canaan, where the province of Gatilee was esteemed the fairest, and most fruitful, because situated farthest to the north, and consequently nearest to that latitude we recommend. In the new world again, the provinces of Carolina, Florida , Neio-Mexico, and California , all lying in the fifth north climate, are comparable, in point of beauty and fertility, to any part of the known world ; and it is certainly a great fault in their inhabitants, not to have cultivated those countries as they deserve. In South Amrica , again, the provinces in this climate equal in beauty, and in riches, any countries hitherto disco - vered. The Cape of Good Hope is so charming a place, that there are very few countries that equal, and non# that surpass it. The air there is exceeding wholesome ; Vol. III. 4 G the 6s r 1722.
6or COMMODORE ROGGEWEIN, J7 22 -the soil produces, in abundance, wine, corn, and the most excellent fruits ; they have likewise such infinite quantities of cattle, tame and wild fowl, that the people live, as it were, in paradise. The country of Chili is likewise considered as one of the finest in the world v and the city of Si. Jago, its capital, stands in the latitude of 33 degrees, 40 minutes south. The Spaniards would have us believe, that there is nothing equal to it ; and it is, at the fame time, certain, that the provinces behind it, and which extend quite to the North Seas, are almost incredibly fruitful. Such as are acquainted with different climates, will readily agree with me, that the heat is much greater in the Isiand Ceylon, and on the coast of Malabar , than in the countries situated under the torrid zone, and in the first climate. On the other side, it is certain, that the kingdom of Bengal, and the country of Sur at, are still much warmer than Malabar , as being in the third climate, whereas Malabar is in the second. The warmth of the air, and the fertility of the soil, increase from Surat to Delly , which is the capital of the dominions of the Great Mogul , the former lying in 21, and the latter in 30 degrees latitude. The heat is much greater at Gambron , which is stated on the Gulf of Balsora , than at Surat, the former being in the 4th climate. AIL that I have advanced is so clear, and withal so certain, that it is not liable to the least objection : From these remarks, founded upon experience, we may justly infer, because we can invincibly prove, that the fifth climate is superior to the rest, and the countries seated therein, the best and the most fertile ; if it was not so, the heat under the torrid zone would be absolutely insupportable, the earth would be burnt up, and incapable of producing any thing for the nourishment of men, or the subsistence" of beasts. On the other hand, the northern countries, even in the midst of summer, would have so little heat, that they would produce nothing : "We see however, that, in our northern regions, such, for instance, as Sweden , Poland, and Livonia , the force of
to AUSTRALASIA, &c. 60 3 of the sun produces, in a fortnight or three weecks, as I 7 22 - great effects, as in two or three months, in the coun- tries under the line itself: The reason is plainly this, that in the northern countries, the nights being extremely short, the earth has not time to cool, but remains continually heated, and that to a degree, sometimes, as vehement as under the first climate: But this does not last long ; for as soon as the rays of the fun begin to fall obliquely, the nights grow long, which is the reason, that, in these countries, neither plants nor fruits ever arrive at full maturity. The countries in the sixth climate are less fertile than those in the fifth ; and, for the same reason, the seventh, eighth, and ninth climates yield to the sixth ; and thus the richness and senility of the foil constantly and regularly diminish to the twenty-fourth climate, under which ly the Laplands, the extremity of liajjia and Siberia . To conclude, if a traveller had a mind to put this to the test, by making a voyage through all the different climates of the earth, he would certainly find the position before laid down, viz. that the most fruitful, the most delightful, and, of consequence, the most desireable countries, lie in the fifth climate, certain and incontestable. Such a journey would lead him to Tyre in Syria, the country about which all writers agree.to be the most delightful; thence he ought to proceed to Tunis , and along the coast of Barbary, celebrated likewise for the wholeiomeness of the air, and the fertility of the foil: He must take the Cape of Good Hose also in his passage, where he would find a country lovely beyond diicription lastly, he must proceed to Nankin , and the province of Honan , in China ; but if he would save himself this trouble, let him examine the accounts of those who have been in those countries, and he will no longer have any doubts. The Dutch Commodore, when he quitted the island of Juan Fernandez , proposed to visit that part of the southern continent, which was reported to be discovered by Captain Davis , in the year 1680. 4 G 2 In
6 o 4 COMMODORE ROGGEWEIN, 17:2- In their passage, the first land they saw, was that o? w ''"' the lesser island of Juan Fernandez, which lies about ten miles stem the great one, appears lower, and less fertile at a distance; but, as our Dutch discoverers had nor an opportunity of landing, we cannot depend much upon their account of it. As* they had now the benefit of the south-east. monsoon, they quickly arrived in the latitude of 28 degrees, and in the longitude of two honored and fifty-one, where they expected to have met with Davis 's land, of which also they had the greatest and most probable hopes, when they perceived abundance of fowls flying, and observed- also, that the wind shifted often, both which are looked upon as certain signs of land. Some of the company flattered themselves that they saw it; but, to the great grief, and no small astonishment of the Commodore, no such land was to be found. Our author thoiks, that either they passed it, or that there is n" such country. 1 must own, that I do not wonder they missed it; for whoever considers Mr. IVafer's description attentively, will see that they sought it near ten degrees too far to the west. Our author observes afterwards very sensibly, that, as these southern countries lie east and west, or to the east and to the southwest, this situation renders it almost impracticable to discover them; for a west-north-west wind carries a ship by them at some distance, and a north-west wind bears a ship quite away from them , so that, while thele winds reign, the search must, humanly speaking, be absolutely vain. The consideration of this will sufficiently explain the accounts hitherto given us of these southern countries; they are seen, as it were, accidentally, and by chance; when looked for, they are not to be found. This, to such as are inadvertent, brings former discoveries into doubt, and even into contempt; but a little thought, and a small acquaintance with the nature of such things, will set us right again; and we need only consider the course that Captain Da^.is steered, in order to be satisfied, that his was a true discovery, and
to AUSTRALASIA. &c. 605 and that, by the same course, this country might be 1722. sound again. But to proceed with our voyage. w-' The Dutch Commodore sailed west twelve degrees, having still light of a vast number of birds, which attended them, till they arrived on the coast of a small island, about sixteen leagues in extent; which island, as they discovered it on Easter-day, which fell that year on the 3d-14th of April, they called or Eajler-Ijland. The African Galley , being the smallest, and withal the best sailor in the squadron, went first to examine this new country, and reported, that it seem. ed to be very fertile, and withal Well inhabited too, since they had seen abundance of smoke in all parts of it; which gave great joy to the Commodore, who immediately resolved, that the whole squadron Ihould go in. The next day they spent in looking for a port; and, when they were about two miles from the shore, an Indian came off to them in his canoe. They made signs to him to come on board ; which he very readily did, and was exceedingly well received. We continued to take in refreshments at this island for some days, on one of which we landed 150 men, and had a skirmish with the natives, wherein a good many of them were killed. After this affair, we continued good friends, examined the coasts, and found the foil very rich and fruitful. After leaving the island of P'asch , they were not long before they found themselves in the height of that island called Badwater t discovered by Echouten in the year 1615, and to which he gave that name, because all their springs were brackish. They were in hopes of discovering at this height some part also of the southern continent; but, by changing their course, they ran three hundred leagues out of their way, and at least one hundred and fifty leagues farther than Schcu- ten. That famous seaman says, in the account of his voyage, that he gave one day chace to a small vessel, that bore away from him directly south , from whence he concluded, and with great reason, that there must certainly
6oS COMMODORE ROGGEWEJN, 1722.certainly be land on that side. Indeed, from all tile lights that reason and experience afford, I am more and more confirmed in my opinion, that there is a track of land on that side, extending above two thousand leagues. In order to come upon which coast, the proper course from Europe is certainly south-south- west; but from America the best course would be north-east, or north-east and by north. In this wide sea the Dutch Commodore failed upwards of 800 leagues without discovering land ; and, though he frequently varied his course, steering now this way, and then that, yet it was all to no purpose, till arriving in the height of 15 degrees zo minutes south latitude, they discovered a very low island, the coast of Which was covered with a very yellow sand. As they saw in the midst of it a kind of pond or lake, the principal officers of the squadron were unanimously of o- pinion, that it was the fame island Schouten had discovered, and to which he had given the name of the island of Dogs ; and, for that reason, they did not think sit either to go ashore there, or to examine it more particularly. Our author, however, is clearly of opinion, that Schouten never saw this island, which is in the latitude of 15 degrees 45 minutes south, and in the longitude of 280 degrees. As he conceived this to be absolutely a dew discovery, he bestowed on the island the name of Carljboff.\ i. e. Charles's Court. He describes it to be a low slat island, about three leagues in extent, with a lake in the middle. After they left this island, the wind began to come about to the southwest; which was a sign, that they were near some coast, that altered the current of the air. In the night we fell in with a parcel of islands be-* tween 15 and 16 degrees of south latitude, where the African Galley was lost, and the crew taken on board the other ships, excepting the quarter-master and four seamen, who got ashore, and refused to come on board, for fear of being punished for some former crimes. At this time, the ships crews were grievously
to AUSTRALASIA, &c. 607 ly afflicted with the scurvy, some of whom drop-1722. ed off daily. W ' J The very next morning after they weighed from Mischievous illand, they saw, at the distance of eight leagues to the west, a new isiand, which they called Aurora , because in the Cammodore's vessel they discerned it as the day broke. The Tienhoven was nearer it; and, indeed, so near it, that if the sun had rose half an hour later, she must have had the same fate with the African Galley, since they were but a cannon shot from the rocky shore, when the danger was perceived. The Commodore immediately made the signal to tack, which was done with great difficulty, and the (hip with much ado escaped. The fright into which this put the mariners, soon after produced a mutiny ; in which the seamen insisted, one and all, that the Commodore should immediately return, or that, at least, he should give them security to pay them their wages, though they should be so unlucky as to lose their vessel. To say the truth, this demand of the seamen was very just and reasonable. They were every day exposed to the most excellive fatigues in these stormy and unknown seas; and, at the same time, ran the hazard of losing in a moment all the reward they were to expect from their labours, since the custom of Holland, is, that the seamen lose their wages whenever the ship is lost. The Commodore listened to their complaints with a humanity worthy a man of honour, and immediately took an oath, that whatever happened to the ships, they should receive their wages to the last farthing. He kept it too with the utmost exactness ; for though the African Galley was lost before, and both the other ships were condemned at Batavia , yet every one of their respective crews had their wages paid them to the full, as soon as they arrived at Amjlerdam. The island of Aurora is about four leagues in extent, the country covered with a charming verdure, and adorned both with high trees, and smaller wood. But,
6ot COMMODORE ROGGEWEIN, 1722. But, as they found all the coast rocky and foul, they left this illand too without landing, after having taken only a prospect of it at a distance. Towards evening, the fame day, they had sight of another island, which, for that reason they called Vesper. It was about twelve leagues in circuit, the ground very low, but, withal, covered with fine grafs, and stored with great plenty of various sorts of trees. They continued their course still, steering west, to the height of about 15 degrees ; and the next morning they discovered another country, which, seeing covered with smoke, they concluded was inhabited, and therefore made all the fail they could, in hopes of meeting with refreshments : And as they approached the country nearer, they saw some of the inhabitants diverting themselves on the coast in their canoes. They pereived likewise, by degrees, that what they had taken for one conn try, was, in reality, abundance of islands crouded close to each other j among which they had now entered so far, that they found it a very difficult thing to extricate themselves. In this situation, they sent a man to the top-mast-head, to discover a passage out -, apd as the weather was perfectly serene, they had the good luck to get once more into the open lea, without any accident; though, in passing by several ranges of steep rocks, they had reason to consider this as a very great, as well as fresh deliverance. There were six of these islands exceedingly beautiful and pleasant to the eye, and which, taken together, could not be less than thirty leagues in circumference. I hey were situated twenty-five leagues west of Mischievous island : The Dutch gave them the name us the Labyrinth ; because they had been obliged to tack several times to get clear of them. They still continued a west course, and discovered an island in 16 degrees south latitude, which they called Recreation where they had afkirmisli with the natives, and many were killed on both sides. The Commodore, before his departure, thought fit to hold a concil of war, in which he communicated to his
to AUSTRALASIA, &c. 609 his ,officers the contents of his instructions; which 1722. were, that if, in the latitude and longitude they were W ' J now in, they could make no discovery of importance, he should return home. There were some of the council who were very much astonished at this order, and could not forbear telling the Commodore, that, being advanced so far, and having met with so great encouragement, it would betray a great want of spirit, if they did not proceed. To this he answered, That they had been already out ten months-, that they had still a long voyage to make to the East-Indies-, that provisions began to grow very short; and, above aii, that their crew was already so much diminished, and those who survived in so weak a condition, that, if twenty more should die, or fall sick, there would not be enough left to navigate both ships, not to mention other reasons of equal importance. The true secret, however, says my author, of this sudden change, was the great desire that some of the principal officers had to get to the East-Indies-, for they were afraid of miffing the monsoon, in which cafe they must have remained still six months longer in the Scuih JSeas, Thus, fays he, all our grand design was,at once defeated and overturned, after our having taken such incredible pains to succeed, and after meeting with so many omens of success. Some officers, however, opposed this motion to the very last; and, foreseeing the mischiefs that must attend it, earnestly persuaded the Commodore to attempt rather wintering in the countries mentioned by Ferdinand de Quiros , from which, as they shewed him, they could not be above an hundred and fifty leagues. But when they found he was inflexible, a new dispute arose about the passage home : 1 hose who had the good of the voyagd only at heart, insisted peremptorily, that it was wrong to think of going by the East-Indies, sinCe it was directly contrary to the design ot their instructions -, that, by continuing the first cour r e, they must necessarily fall in with some island or other, where they might land, Vol. III 4 H take
6io COMMODORE ROGGEWEIN, i7 22 *take in refreshments, and stay till their lick recovered; '■"''''■'That, in this cafe, they ought first of all to erect a fort for their own security against the natives ; in the next, to treat these people with all imaginable gentleness and candour-, that, by this means, they should infallibly engage them to trade and converse with them, which would enable them to learn their language, and carry home a clear, distinct, and full account of the country in which they had lived. They farther represented, that, if this proppftl was complied with, they should have it always in their power to serum home, by steering an east course, and, by taking time, perfect effectually the discoveries they were sent to make. The reasons were heard with patience and civility, though they had not the weight that they deserved ; and, on the whole, a resolution was taken to continue their course towards New Britain or Blezv Guinea , and thence by the way of the Moluccas to the East-Indies % where they were in hopes of procuring not only a supply of provisions, and other necessaries, but of seamen also, in cafe they should be in so weak a condition as not to be able to navigate their ships back to Europe. By this resolution, our author says, an end was put to all hopes of visiting the land of de Qu.iros % which, it was the opinion of the best seamen on board, they might certainly and easily have discovered. This opinion of theirs was grounded upon three -reasons : First, that the situation of this country is better l&id down, than chose of most new discovered countries, which are not yet thoroughly known. Secondly, that the islands they had hitherto met with, agreed, in e- very respect, as to their situation, inhabitants, and product, with the descriptions in de Ouird 's memorials. And lastly, because the wind plainly blew off some continent, or very large island, and would therefore have been extremely favourable to their design, if they had thought sit to prosecute it. Our author takes occasion here to enter into a large discourse on the certainty of such a southern continent, the advantages that
to AUSTRALASIA, &c. 611 that would probably result from the discovery of it, 1722. and the means most likely to effect that discovery, the substance of which we shall endeavour to give the reader in as few words as it is possible. It is very certain, that the discovery of Terra Auftra- Us incognita is considered, by many wife and knowing people, as a kind of philosopher's stone, perpetual motion; or, in plain English, as a chimera, fit only to take up the empty "brains of wild projectors. Yet this ieems to be no sufficient reason, why such as are competent judges of the matter in dispute, should decide, peremptorily, that there is no such country: or, if there be, that it is not worth the finding. These sort of hasty conclusions are extremely fatal to science in genera), and to the art of navigation in particular. To say the truth, all notions built upon conjecture only, however beautifully ranged in a system, serve only to puzzle and mislead people. The discoveiy of all parts of the world seems to be, at once, the business and the glory of man. It is the peculiar privilege of our species, that we can traverse this globe by land and water, and thereby become intelligent with respect to all the various scenes of wiscsom, which the world's Creator and ours has displayed therein. This is sufficient to fnew, that there cannot be any thing more noble, or more worthy of a great mind, than the surveying, either in theory or practice, the disposition of this terraqueous globe, the harmony of its parts, and their relation to each other. Whoever employs any part of his time in this way, will discern that there is wanting to the eye a southern continent, in order to give one side of the globe a resemblance to the other. This is the first argument, that there is such a southern continent ; the next is, that experience confirms this notion; the fowls, the winds, the currents, the ice, beyond Cape Horn, all confirm this o- pinion, that there is land towards the southern pole. We are to consider again, that though we have numberless voyages to the Eajl-lndie^ and great many 4Hz round
6x2 COMMODORE ROGGEWEIN, 1722. round the globe, yet we have few, very few, through ' '-'W th^t ocean, in which this continent is supposed to he ; and these voyages serve all, in some measure, to confirm this opinion ; because, in every one of these voyages, some land or other was discovered, either continent or island. Now, it is certain, that islands, great and small, ard seldom, if ever, at a very great distance from a continent; and therefore, where there are many islands, it is at least a very probable sign, that there is something continent not far from them. Thus much as to the certainty of the thing, that there really is such a country. With regard to the next point, Whether it is worth the discovery? this requires a much more ample inquiry. It is obvious in the first place, that the discovery of all new lands has a natural tendency to the increase of commerce ; of which we have an instance in the whale filhery on the coast of Greenland , and the trade carried on in Hudson's Bay ; but, with respect to the lands we are now speaking of, we have as much certainty as the nature of the thing will admit, that they are really as rich and plentiful, as any countries on the face of the globe, without exception. We have already proved, that the fifth climate is, according to the laws of nature, the most fertile, as well as the most wholesome ; and it must on all hands be allowed, that a great part of the -Terra Au- ftralis lies under that climate. Ferdinand de Quiros , in his memorials, calls it a fourth part of the globe, and with good reason for, from the western point of New Guinea , to the eastern extremity of the country discovered by Hernando Gallego , there is a space of 2000 leagues, a great part of which has been, and the rest may be, certainly discovered. Hut, of all the proofs that can be offered in such a case, those are certainly the most convincing, that are taken from facts. Now de Quiros , and Torres , who actually visited those islands, which by their first discoverer Alonso Savedera, were called the islands of Solomon, not only report, that the country
to AUSTRALASIA, &c. 6iZ country is beauriful in prospect, and exceedingly 1722. fertile in its produce, but that it abounds also with every thing that has hitherto been accounted riches, such as gold, silver, precious stones, and spices. "When the Dutch Commodore quitted the isiand of Recreation , he steered a north-west course, pursuant to the resolution of the last council, in order to attain the height of New Britain. The third day after they sailed, they discovered in the latitude of 12 degrees south, and in the longitude of 290, several islands, which appeared very beautiful at a distance ; and, as they came nearer, they plainly discerned, that they were well planted with fruit trees of all sorts; that the country produced herbs, corn, and roots, in great plenty, laid our, towards the coast, in large and regular plantations. As soon as the inhabitants discerned the ships, they came in their boats, and brought them fish, cocoa-nuts, Indian figs, and other reireshments, in return for which, the Dutch gave them, as usual, small looking-glasses, strings of beaus, and other trifles. It quickly appeared, that these islands were very fully peopled, since many thousands of men and women, the former, generally speaking, armed with bows and arrows, came down to the shore to look at them. They saw, amongst the rest, a very majestic personage, whom, from the dress he wore, and the honours that were paid him, they easily discovered to be the prince or sovereign of this nation. He presently stepped into his canoe, accompanied by a fair young woman, who fat close by his fide. His canoe was immediately surrounded by a vast number of other vessels that crouded about it, and seemed intended for a guard. All the inhabitants of these islands were white, and differed nothing in their complexion from Europeans , except that they were a little iun-burnt. They seemed to be a very harmless good sort of people, very brisk and lively, treating each other with visible marks of civility, and discovering nothing that was wild or savage
614 commodore roggewein, 1722. vage in their behaviour. Their bodies were not paint- ed like those of the other Indians they had seen, but very handsomely cloathed from the girdle downwards with a sort of silk fringes, very nealy folded. On their heads they wore hats of a very neat kind of stuff, and very large, to keep off the fun ; and, about their necks they wore collars of very beautiful and odoriferous flowers. The country itself appeared exquisitely charming, every one of the islands being agreeably diversified with hills and valleys, as lovely as imagination can paint. Some of them were ten, some fifteen, and some again twenty miles in compass. They thought fit to call them Bowman's Islands, after the Captain of the Tienhoven, who first discovered them. Weighing from Bowman's IJlands, they continued their course towards the north-west, which gained them, the next morning, the sight of two islands ; which they took to be the ifland of Coco r, and Traitors ijland , so called by William Shouten , by whom they were discovered. Captain Bowman would very willingly have approached them more ■nearly-, but the Commodore would not permit him. The ifland of Cocas, at the distance they saw it, seemed very high land, and about eight leagues in compass. The other appeared to be much lower, the foil red, and without trees. This last island, they believed, lay in the latitude of 11 degrees south but our author ingenuously owns, that they sailed at too great a distance to be able to give any good account of them. They soon after saw two other islands of very large extent, one of which they called Tienhoven , and the 0- ther Groningusn) which last, many of their officers were clearly of opinion, was no island, but the great south continent they were sent to discover-, with respect: to which, however, our author suspends hisjudg-' ment, because the proofs on neither side seemed to him convincing. As for the island of Tienhoven, it appeared to be a rich and beautiful country, moderately high, the meadows exceedingly green, and within- Jand adorned with trees. They coasted along the shore
to AUSTRALASIA fcfr. 615 for a whole day, without coming to the end of it. 1722. They observed, however, that it extended in the form of a semicircle towards the island of Groninguen ; so that after all, it is very probable, that these two countries, that were at first taken for islands, may, in reality, be lands contiguous to each other, and both of them part of the Terra Australis incognita: Yet our authoracknow- ledges they found, in that neighbourhood, islands of 150 miles in circumference ; which agrees very well with the account given by Dampier , who affirms, that he found a strait between New Guinea and New-Britain ; and, if so, this must be considered as an island. A great part of the company were for anchoring on the coast, and making a descent; but that is now become a very disagreeable motion; and, to be rid of it the more easily at present, the officers, who were so fond of going to the Eajl-lndies , suggested, that it must, at this time, be attended with great danger, since, if the party landing was cut off, they should not then have men enough left to carry their ships home. They were obliged therefore to continue their course, how disagreeable soever that measure might be to the majority of the company, who, as they came out to make discoveries, were unwilling to go home with imperfect stories. It was not now doubted but that they should very soon see the coasts of New Guinea , or of New Britain ; but, after sailing many days without seeing any land at all, they began to be satisfied of the vanity of these calculations ; but, at the same time, could not help murmuring a little at their effects, which were very dreadful, since the scurvy began to carry off three, four or five of their best hands every day : So that, though they had already reduced three ships companies to two, they more than once deliberated, whether it might not be expedient to burn one of the remaining vessels ; and the only argument that restrained them from doing it was, that, in cafe any accident befel one, there was still a possibility left of e- Jcaping with the other. There cannot be apy thing more terrible
6i6 COMMODORE ROGGEWEIN, 1722. terrible than the account our author gives of the mife- series they endured. The officers of the Dutch squadron were at this time under some doubts, whether they should continue their course as Damper did, or whether they should pass by the islands of 'female, fidore , and Bacian , as the Ids dangerous passage. To gain time, however, they made choice of the first, because otherwise they must have coasted round the islands last mentioned, in order to come at the Moluccas. These three islands of female , fidore , and Bacian, are each of them governed by its respective monarch. The Dutch Eafi-India company allow each of these princes a kind of annual tribute, on condition they cut up by the roots all the spice-trees that grow in their dominions. The rest of the kings of the Moluccas , to the number of one hundred, are all dependent upon these three great princes. It is said, that, from these islands, the three Tkfogr, or wife men of the Eajl, of whom the Scripture 1 peaks, went to Jerusalem , and thence to Bethlehem , there to adore the infant Jesus : And they farther assure us, that all the little princes of the Moluccas were antiently. famous for their ikill in astronomy ; in which art, they followed principally the grounds laid down by the E- gyptians •, and it is farther said that some monuments, some remembrance, of this fact are still preserved in their old books, the leaves of which were made of barks of trees. The Dutch Commodore, having left the coasts of Bouton , and passed through the channel of the Moluccas , arrived, after his crew had suffered inexpressible miseries, which carried oss the greatest part of them, on the coast of the ilia nd ot Java, towards the close of the month of September 1 722. He anchored immediately with his two ships in the road of Jafara ; and saluted, according to custom, both the city and the fort. They quickly hoisted out their shallops, in order to go asnoie at Japara ; and, on their arrival, were surprised to send, that, on shore.
to AUSTRALASIA, etc. 617 shore, it was Saturday, though, at quitting their ships 1722. they conceived it to be Friday morning. The first step the Commodore and his officers took, was to pay a visit to the person who resided there on the part of the company, in order to acquaint him with their reasons of coming thither. This gentleman happened to be one Ensign Kujler , a very civil, well-behaved man ; who instantly assembled a council, to consider what measures were to be taken upon this occasion. They were all extremely moved at the recital given by the Commodore of the misfortunes they had met with ; and pitied him, his officers, and ships companies, exceedingly. To jay the truth, there never was seen a set of men. more worthy of compassion. There was no more than ten persons in tolerable health left, among which our author was one ; and no less than twenty-six were down of sickness, by which they had lost, in the course of their voyage, exclusive of those who were killed in their several engagements with the Indians , no fewer than seventy men. As soon as they had notified their arrival, their next care was to get their sick men on ffiore, which was performed with all the diligence and tenderness imaginable, by slinging them in their hammocks into their shallops. There were, however, four a- mongst these poor people in so low a condition, that it was not thought possible to move them, and therefore they were left on board; the very thoughts of which, after their companions were removed, killed them. Such as were carried ashore were lodged in an island, under tents set up for that purpose, where they had every necessary afforded them, that the country produced ; and yet, after all the care that could be taken, rnanyof them left their bones in this island. Mr. Kujler did not fail to send an account of their arrival to the commandant os the coasts of Java, who instantly transmitted it to Mr. Swaardekroon, who was at that time governour-general of the Eajt-Indies. The answer he gave was extremely favourable. He promi- Vol. III. 4 I fed
6i8 COMMODORE ROGGEWEIN, i 722 .sed to assist them with every thing in his power ; and, if I mistake not, fays our author, he promised to supply us with provisions and men ; adding, that we had nothing to do but to get to Batavia as soon as we could. While they waited for the general's answer, and the recovery of their lick, they pasted their time very a- greeably ; for their countrymen, having a true sense of the miseries they had endured, did not fail to use e- very means to make them forget them ; which very soon had its effect: Insomuch that, our author observes, their seamen, in a very sew days, were as frolic and gay, as if they had made the most pleasant and most fortunate voyage in the world. Ha adds, that it shocked him-extremely to fee those, who, but a few days before, were weeping, sighing, praying, and making the warmest protestations of their leading new and regular lives, if God, in his great mercy, would be pleased to save them, running headlong into the greatest extravagancies. 1 heir whole time, fays he, was now spent in swearing, drinking, and in passing whole days and nights in debauched houses. This however, he attributes, in a great measure, to the bad example os those, among whom they lived, all the lower sort of people at Jqpara being as profligate and lewd, as it is possible to conceive a people ; insomuch that the first question many of them ask. of strangers arrived from Europe is, whether they have not brought some new oaths over ; and whether they cannot teach them a more lively and extravagant method of swearing. ; ' " The town of sapara is seated at the bottom of a, mountain of a moderate height, is of a middling size, and inhabited chiefly by Javanese , Chinese, and Dutch. \Vhen it.was in the hands of the Portuguese , it was much more considerable in extent, than it is at present. The East-India company, before they got possession of Ji- catra , fixed here the principal magazines for their merchandize, and it was their chief factory, on which all the factories on the island of Java were dependent; but
to AUSTRALASIA, &c. 6 19 but that establishment was funk long since, the facto-1722. ry being transferred to Samaran. The port of Japara is equally fare and commodious; and there is a fort, built mostly of wood, erected on the top of the mountain, at the foot of which the town is seated, that Commands the whole road. This is called the Invincible Mountain , because when the Portuguese were masters of the place, the Javanese were constantly deflated in all the attempts they made to get it into their hands. The king of Japara , generally speaking, resides at a place called Kattafura t which lies twenty-nine leagues up the country, where the Dutch have a strong fort, and a good garrison ; which serves not only to secure their conquest, but, at the same time, for a guard to the king. This prince is a Mahometan , and, according to the practice of most eastern monarchs, is constantly served by women, of whom he takes as many as he pleases, either as wives, or concubines. Some of his priests are obliged to go every year in pilgrimage to Meccha , in order to make vows there for the safety and prosperity of the king and royal family. His subjects are extremely faithful, and, to the last degree, devoted to his service. The principal persons in his court are obliged, as often as they have an audience, to approach him creeping on their knees ; but, in time of war, this slavish custom is disused. Such as commit the slightest fault are poinarded on the spot with a little dagger, called a Krid\ and as this is almost the only punishment in use amongst them, so the slightest as welfas the greatest faults are, among these people, capital. The natives of this country are, for the most part, of a very brown complexion, tolerably well- ihaped, and have long black hair; which, however, they often cut. Their noses are flat and broad, and their teeth excessively bsd, which is owing to their betel and faufcl, which they are chewing continually. The faufel is a kind of nut, not much unlike, yet 4 I 2 something (
620 COMMODORE ROGGEWEIN, i7 12 -something smaller than the nutmeg, without taste, and yielding, when chewed, a red kind of juice. It is this very juice that the Indians make use ot in painting the chintz, which we admire so much in Europe. The tree, that bears this nut, is very strait, and resembles, in its leaves, the cocoa tree. The betel is a plant, which produces long rank leaves, which, in their shape, resemble those of the citron; in taste, they are of an agreeable bitter. The fruit it bears grows in the shape of a lizard's tail, about two fingers breadth lor,A of an aromatic flavour, and, in its smell, extremely grateful. The Indians carry with them continually the leaves of betel ; and, at all visits, they are presented in ceremony. They are almost perpetually chewing them ; and, as the taste of them is very bitter, they, for the most part, qualify them with araca, faufel, or the powder of calcined oyster-shells. Thus prepared, they have a very agreeable taste. After they have chewed all the juice out of them, they spit forth the dry hard mass. There are some again, who mix their betel- leaves with lime, amber, and cardamom feeds ; others again with China- tobacco. Abundance of Europeans are got into the way of chewing it to such a degree, that they cannot leave it off, though it has been very fatal to some of them, since the Indians are so very skilful in preparing betel, that it shall do a man's business as effectually as a pistol or a dagger. The prevailing diversion among these people is what they call their tan - dakts, which are, in fact, a kind of comedies. The women, who act in these fort of shews, are very richly dressed : but the entertainment consists chiefly in singing and dancing, accompanied by their music, which, after all, is not very extraordinary, or very pleasant, at least to European ears. They have no other instrument than a kind of little drums, which they beat dextrous! y enough. As for their dancing, it is generally of the grotesque kind, in which, without doubt, they are excellent, throwing their bodies, with inexpressible agility, into all forts of postures, and expressing by them
621 to AUSTRALASIA, &c. them the passions of the mind so comically, that it is 1722. simply impossible to avoid laughing. These Indians practise also the wardance, in which their king, and his grandees, often take a share. They likewise amuse themselves, like the Englifb, with cock-fighting; and lay such considerable sums, that they are often beggared. This country abounds with all the necessaries of life: Here are horned cattle, hogs, and an amazing quantity of fowls. The only thing that is scarce here is mutton, and that is chiefly occasioned by the richness of the pasture, where the sheep burst with eating : As to wild creatures, they have buffaloes, stags, tygers, and the rhinoceros, which animal the Indians hunt chiefly for its horn, of which they make drinking-veffels, that are valued at a very high rate, from a notion that they will not hold poison, but instantly break as soon as it is poured into them. The high price of these vessels* instead of proving their virtue, ferveis only to shew, that the Javanese are strongly given to this infamous practice of poisoning. The land is every-wherr extremely fertile, producing in vast abundance pepper, ginger, cinnamon, rice, cardamoms, Of late years they have planted coffee there with great success, insomuch as they hope, and not without reason, to render it the principal commodity of the country : As to fruit-trees, such as cocoas, figs, &c. they grow every where ; and, as they are green throughout the year, and constantly planted in rows along the river-sides, here are the most beautiful walks in the world. Sugar-canes abound in Java. Their vines bear grapes seven times a year, but they are sit only for raisins, and not for wine, because the climate ripens them too hastily. The lea, and all the rivers, furnish them with an infinite variety of the finest kinds of fish ; so that, take it altogether, one may safely affirm of Java , that there is not, under the canopy of heaven, an island more plentiful, or more pleasant. After refreshing themselves at Japara for about a month, they began to think of continuing their voyage
621 COMMOI) 0 Rfi ROGGRWtlN, 1722. age to Batavia, in order to reap there the fruits of the '' or '° Goveriiour-General's fine promises : When all things were ready; they spent about two days in taking leave of their friends, who gave them all forts of provisions, and much more of every kind than was necessary for so short a voyage. At laii they quitted, not without a sensible regret, a place where they had been so kindly tfeated, where all their wants had been so generously relieved, and where, after so many hardihips, so many sufferings, they had spent a few weeks in peace and plenty. They steered, in failing from hence, a west course for about seventy leagues, and then, with as fair a wind as they could with, entered the road of Batavia ; where, as soon as they had saluted the fort, they anchored close to the ships that were lading farthest voyage home, believing that now all their pains were over, and that themselves would be speedily the companions of the ships that were homeward-bound ; but they loon found that the most flattering hopes are not always the best-grounded ! As soon as the Commodore saw his ships safely anchored, he went with his captain to his shallop, intending to have gone to Batavia ; but before they had rowed well from the ship's side, they saw the shallop of the commandant of Batavia rowing towards them, with the fiscal on board, and some other members of the council. These gentlemen bid the Commodore go back, which he did without the least hesitation ; and by that time both shallops were within hearing of the ship, the Fiscal proclaimed aloud the Governour-Gene- ral's sentence of confiscation. At this time both the Dutch vessels were so blocked up by large flu ps of the harbour, that it was impossible for them to escape; and not long after arrived some hundreds of soldiers, who took both the ships, and their companies, into their custody. The Commodore, taught by so many, and those too such unexpected disasters, began to repent extremely that ever he had returned by the route of the Eajl-Indies but it was a little of the latest, the thing was-
to AUSTRALASIA, &c. 623 was now over, there was no calling time back, the dis- 1722. covery had been neglected, and that neglect justly pu- V ' V>M ' nished by the sentence of the East-India Company, however unjust in itself. By this sentence, both ships were declared good prize, the goods on board them confiscated, and to cut matters short, and prevent any trouble from representations or memorials, every thing was exposed to public sale, and disposed of to the best bidder. As for the crew of both ships, they were divided, and put on board several ships that were home- ward-bound. Towards the end of the month of March 1723, their ship being revictualled, and ready to sail, a brisk southeast wind carried them out of the bay. Their fleet consisted of about three and twenty sail, the best part of which belonged to the company ; the rest were India ships, that were also homeward-bound. They steered their course for the istand of St. Helena , where they arrived in three weeks : When they thought they were pretty near the island, the Commodore thought proper to detach two strips, to discover whether there were any corsairs upon that coast; for a little before, they had seen and given ch?ce to a pirate, and therefore apprehended there might be more upon that coast for a little before, they had seen and given chace to a pirate, and therefore apprehended there might be more upon that coast. As they drew near it, the Commodore fired a gun, as a signal for the line of battle ; which is, in all cafes, a very useful precaution, though it stood them here in little stead, because, ar it fell out, there were no pirates on the coast. The istand of St. Helena lies in the latitude of 16 degrees, 15 minutes south, about 550 leagues from the Cape of Good Hope , 500 leagues from the coast of Bra- stl ,;nd 350 from Augusta , which is the nearest land. This island is about seven leagues in circumference, covered with rocky hills, which, in a.clear day, may be seen forty leagues off at sea. It is really surprising to see so small an island in the midst of the ocean, and at
52+ COMMODORE ROGGEWEIN, '722. at so great a distance from land, with so deep a sea '"' w round it, that there is scarce any anchorage to be found. The Portuguese first discovered it, and that to their cost, having one of their large Indian ships wrecked here; of the remains of which they built a chapel, which, tho* long since decayed, still bestows its name on the finest valley in the island. They planted lemons, oranges, and pomegranates, over all the country, and left there likewise hogs and goats, together with partridges, pigeons, and peacocks, for the conveniency of such ships as should touch there; but they did not think fit to plant it, because they were afraid some other nation would dispossess them. There was an hermit who chose to live here by himself, killing the goats for their skins, which he fold as opportunity offered, when the ships came in ; but the Portuguese removed him, as they did afterwards some Negro-flaves, who settled in the mountains. It is at present possessed by the English, who have a good fort here, and are so well established, that it is not likely any other nation should ■disturb them. The valleys are exceedingly beautiful and fertile ; the weather indeed is sometimes very hot, but even then it is very cool upon the mountains, so that they never can want a place of refreshment. There is not any country in the world better watered, the rivulets running from the tops of the hills into the sea, which is never at a great distance, with streams as clear as crystal nor can there be any thing more pleasant, than to behold the seamen, fatigued with a long stay in hot climates, refreshing themselves here by washing themselves in the brooks. Here are mustard-plants, parsley, sorrel, purslain, wintermrestes, and other herbs, exceedingly good for the scurvy: Neither is the Island' destitute of trees, though none fit for timber, but for fuel only. All forts of refreshments are to be had here in plenty, and on reasonable terms ; and, though there were formerly disputes between the English and Dutch, about the possession of the island, yet the former now treat
to AUSTRALASIA, &c. 625 treat the latter very kindly whenever their ships put in 1722. here, and furnish them with whatever they want. '-^ They sailed from hence for the island of Ascension , which lies in 8 degrees south latitude, about 200 leagues north-west from St. Helena: It is about the fame bigness with the other island, but the shore is excessively rocky, and the country absolutely barren here are neither grass nor trees, but the surface of the land looks as if rent asunder-, from whence some have conceived, not without great shew of reason, that here has been formerly a volcano, or fiery mountain. Nothing remarkable happened in our course home, till our entering the Spanistj Seas, the weather proved so bad, that the advice-soip lost her rudder. This accident obliged them to go through the channel, in order to purchase a new one on the Englifb coast. The French , Danijh , and other ships, generally take that rout; but the ships belonging to the Butch East-India Company, are obliged to fail round the coast of Ireland , .from an apprehension, that in cafe they met with stormy weather in the channel, they would be obliged to put in to some English port, which might be attended with many inconveniencies. Such ships, however, as have sustained any damage at sea, are permitted to pass thro' the channel, provided they are not in a condition to keep the sea long enough to go round the Irijh coast, as was the cafe of the advice-lhip before-mentioned : After three weeks fail, during which time they were involved in continual mists and fogs, they had fight at last of the Orkney islands, where some Dntch snips were still employed in the herring-fisoery. In the latitude of 60 degrees, they met with some ships that were waiting for them, which conveyed them to the coast of Holland , where every ship entered its destined port in safety ; and those on board winch the prisoners were, came into the Fexel the 11th of July 1723, and five days after arrived at Amsterdam, the very same day two years that they failed on this voyage. Upon the return of the squadron, the situation of Vol. III. ' 4 K affairs
626 COMMODORE 'ROGGEWEIN, \7i1- affairs was much altered ; for the We^-India Company immediately commenced a suit, in behalf of themselves, and of the persons employed on board the squadaon under their protection, in order to obtain satisfaction for the injustice done them by the Eafi-Indta Company. They set forth in the memorial they presented to their Hich Mightinesses the States General, that these ships had been fitted out in pursuance of the powers granted to the Company by the States; that they were not so much fitted out with a view to the profit of the voyage, as from the regard had to the advantages that might result to the Public from their discoveries ; that, iho' it was true, these ships had not perfected, as indeed it could not be expected, the design on which they were employed, yet they had made great progress therein, and such as gave hopes of arriving in time at all that was proposed by this expedition ; that, in doing this, they had spent a great deal of time, consumed the best part, if not all, of their provisions, and had endured incredible hardships ; which had induced them, or rather obliged them, to think of returning home by the way of the East-Indies ; that they had no design, and, in fact, were in no condition, to carry on any sort of trade in those parts ; but sought merely to meet with some refreshments, and to obtain such assistance amongst their countrymen, as, in quality of subjects of the States of Holland, they had a right to demand ; that, immediately on their arrival at Balavia,, without any hearing, their ships and cargoes were condemned and fold, and the few men that had survived the hardships they had endured, not in the Company's service only, but that of the Public, had been sent home as criminals, prisoners, in the Eajl-India Company's ships, notwithstanding that the Governour-General, and his council, were well apprised of the nature and circumstances of the case : That such a manner os proceeding is extremely dangerous, not only to the V/eft-India Company, but to the State, and to the Public, since it plainly discoqrages industry, new discoveries, and
Tt> AUSTRALASIA, &c. 627 the extension of commerce. Therefore it is absolutely 1722* requiiite, their High Mightinesses should interpose in w ° the present case, as well for the settling this important point, with regard to futurity, as for the fake of redressing the Wejl-India Company, the officers, and seamen, that have been thus injured, and giving that satisfaction to seafaring people in general, which was so apparently necessary to free them from the apprehensions of being punished by a company abroad, for performing what was looked upon to be their duty at home. The States-general immediately directed the Eajl- India Company to put in an answer to this memorial, that they might, in the first place, fee, whether they would avow the fact ; and next, whether any reasons could be alleged to justify it: The Eajl-dr.dia Company did not at all hesitate in declaring her approbation of what had been done by the Governour-general, and his council, in the Indies. In their memorial, which contained an answer to what had been alleged against them, they pleaded, that the Eajl-India Company, in Holland. , was originally erected for securing the commerce in that part of the world to the subjects of the States-general, trading under the limitations of their charters; that this end had been most effectually answered through the prudent management of the company, to the envy of all Europe-, that it had been impossible to do this, or to maintain the power of the company in that part of the world, but by the strict execution of the exclusive clauses in their charter: That the ships of the Wejl-India Company were no more privileged than any other ships in this respect; and that, if the Eajl-India Company had invaded the bounds granted to the Company that now complains, they would have taken the very lame course that the Eajl-India Company had lately done for the maintenance of their rights, with equal reason: That the discoveries their ships were intended to make, were within the bounds assigned the Wejl-India Company-, and their officers di- 4 K 4 rested,
6 z 8 COMMODORE ROGGEWEIN, 1722. rested, by their instructions, to proceed no farther than a certain latitude, and to return thro' the Straits of Magellan ; with which instructions if they had complied, this event could not have fallen out, and consequently there could have been no occasion given for this complaint: That the officers of the Eaft-India Company, in the Indies , could not act in any other manner, than as the instructions, grounded on the Company's charter, direst ; and consequently could nor, in the present case, have done otherwise than they have, without being wanting in their duty to the Company : That, to have prevented any thing in this nature, if the Weft India Company had foreleen the necessity of their ships- returning by the Eaft-Indies, they ought to have applied to the Company for their licence, and tor instructions, in their behalf, to the Governour-gene- ral and council in the Indies ; that, for want of taking: these precautions, the strips of the Weft-India Company, when in the Eaft-Indies, could not be known or considered in any manner different from other ships * but, upon committing any offence, were liable to the fame punishment that would have been inflicted upon private traders : That the very setting forth of this to be an extraordinary cafe exculpates the officers of the Eaft-India Company, who have no power of taking notice of any extraordinary cafes, but must act in all according to the ordinary rules prescribed by their instructions v that if they should either have a power allowed, or should assume to themselves a power of acting otherwise, it would be attended with very dangerous consequences, rather more than less prejudicial to the public welfare, than what has happened in the present case ; that, in reality, there is nothing very prejudicial, much less iniquitous, in the fact now under consideration, since the seizure is of no great value to the Weft-India Company, and, with respect to the Public, will be to far from preventing discoveries, that it must prove a means of promoting them, by obliging such officers, as may be hereait 1 sent upon designs of this
to AtJ STR AL A Si A, &c. 6 i§ this nature, to pursue their instructions close, without 1722. framing expedients to themselves, from a presumption, that, to a case which they think extraordinary, the settled laws of their country must: give way : That, upon the whole, they submit it to their High Mightinesses, whether the charter of the Eajl-India Company, being an act of state, ought not, as such, to be considered as A law to their subjects; and, whether, if it be not so considered, the charter can be of any use to the company at all; whether, if the rules of the charter be considered as 2 law by the officers of the Company in the Indies , they have, in this cafe, done any more than was their duty ; and whether, if either they, or the Company, should be punished fordoing their duty, it wouid not be, in effect, doing the very thing that is here complained of as an hardship. It must be allowed, that this defence of the Eajl-India Company was very plausible, and carried in it a great shew of reason. But, according to the custom of Hclland, these memorials, after having been considered, were remitted into the hands of the proper officer, who was appointed to draw up, not only the judgment given in this cafe, but the reasons upon which that judgment was given, which were in substance these : The Eajl-India Company was erected at a time when the maritime power of the State was in its infancy, and that of their enemies the Spaniards very great in those parts ; and that, consequently, what might be very right, and very requisite, in such a situation, ceases so to be, when the circumstances of things are absolutely altered, as at this day : That it is not a thing to be taken for granted, that the great power, and extensive dominion, of the Company in the Indies is equivalent to the power and dominion of the States themselves, with respect to the general good of their subjects; because this is a fact which has been doubted by many, and absolutely contradicted by some of the greatest statesmen in Hoiland: That, as to the right of the PP'eJl-India Company, to do tnc fame thing in the fame cafe, it proves nothing; because
Lzo COMMODORE ROGGEWEIN, 1722.because it is a maxim, from which the Saates will rid- ver depart, that neither ot these companies have acquired, by their charters, a privilege of doing wrong. That the instructions of the West-lndia Company to their officers, to proceed to a certain latitude, and return to the Straights of Magellan , is a clear proof, that they had not the least intent of breaking in upon the privileges of th zEast-India Company, or offending ships into their limits ; and if the officers did not obey theie instructions, it cannot be imputed as a fault to the company, whogave them, or as a crime to the officers, who would have obeyed them, if they could, but were compelled, by that necessity which supersedes all laws, to return as they did : That the Gover- nour-general and the council of the Indies might very easily distinguish between ships coming to trade, and ships that fought a passage home ; especially since it was apparent, by the condition they were in at their arrival in the Eafi-Indies , that they really were in no circumstances of trading ; that their necessities were such as they set them out to be ; and that they were willing to submit to whatever regulation the officers of the Eafi India Company thought fit to prescribe, for preventing any inconvenience from their remaining in those seas. The officers ot the Eafi-India Company are still subjects of the States of Holland , and are not at all bound to execute the instructions of the Company to the prejudice of the public ; and therefore they must have a power of distinguishing in such cases, to prevent their being ' good servants to the company, at the expenceof being bad subjects to the republic. That it was simply impossible the West-lndia Company should demand a licence for what they endeavoured to prevent; and that their instructions, in this respect, are incontestable proofs of their desire to avoid any disputes with that company. Besides, the discovering of new countries is a point of evident advantage to the whole community, and ought by no means to depend on the will or pleasure of any company whatever, since the benefit of the
to AUSTRALASIA, &c. 6 3 i the whole ought always to take place of the privileges i7 2a * granted to any part of a people. The officers of the Eaji-India Company were the proper judges of this, and ought to have made the distinction as subjects of the state of Holland-, for they otherwise might expect the same thing with respect to stiips of war: and, under colour of supporting the privileges of the company, erect a new and independent sovereignty in the Indies. This entirely destroys the notion of great inconveniences that must arise from the officers of the company assuming to themselves such a power because, if they have not such a power, they are not at liberty to distinguish between the obedience they owe the company, and their duty to the public. That this method of treating these ships will contribute to the promoting discoveries, or to any other good end whatsoever, is a thing not to be presumed upon the company's assertion, since the contrary is much more probable. This forces one to observe, that there is no point, in which the private interest of this or any other company more plainly interferes with that of the public, than in this of discovering lands hitherto unknown z for, as this would infallibly contribute to the exten- lion of commerce in general, lo it is no less plain, that it would hurt the interest of the company in particular; especially, if it be true, that the countries made known by this voyage abound with spices, and other rich commodities of the Indies, It is this reflection that ought to incline us to suspect, that the coming into those seas was not the only crime that drew on the perlons on board the ship so heavy a punishment, but rather that it was aggravated by the reports received of their discoveries •, and, if so, it very much imports the state to prevent things of this nature, since, as the Eaji-India Company cannot prevent other nations from attempting such discoveries, the plain consequences of this conduct of theirs must be, placing the rest of the subjects of this state in a worse condition, than if they were the subjects of any other power, which is a
6zr COMMODORE ROGGEWEIN, 1722. a thing that ought by no means to be permitted. As to the value of the snips, and their cargoes, it cannot alter the cafe at all; for, whether it be great or little, satisfaction ought to be made for what has been unjustly taken away ; and, as to the sending home the men on board these ships as prisoners, it has evidently the worst tendency that can be -, because, while they were in the service of the public, they were especially under its protection ; so that, to pass by such an act with impunity, will be to sacrifice the honour of the government, and the safety of the nation, to the perogatives of a company misunderstood. Besides, should this sentence of the governor-general and council of the Indies be supported here, as the memorial from the Company desires, it would undoubtedly occasion frequent mutinies, since a ship's company could not promise themselves protection from their obedience to their officers lawful commands, but must stand exposed to the arbitrary censures of another authority, with the customs of which they cannot be acquainted. On the whole, therefore, we ought to conclude, that, in this cafe, the governour-general and council of the Indies have exceeded the bounds of their legal authority, and done what cannot be justified by the Company's charter, which consequently cannot be weakened in anjr respect, by the setting this sentence aside, and redressing the parties injured ; which ought, therefore, to be done immediately, and in an exemplary manner * that the East-India Company, and their'officers, may, for the future, learn to make such distinctions as are requisite for the security of commerce in general, and for the safety of the subjects of this state in particular. Accordingly their High Mightinesses the States-general ordered and decreed, that the Eaft-India Company should furnish the IVest-India Company with two new ships, completely rigged in every respect, better, than thole which they had condemned and confiscated ; that the former should likewise pay to the latter the full value of their cargoes, so soon as that value could be
to AUSTRALASIA, &c. 633 fixed and ascertained ; that, with respect to the crew 1722. of both ships, the Eajl-India Company should pay them their wages, to the time of their return mo Holland-, that, moreover, the said company should pay all costs of suit, besides a certain sum to the public use, for having thus abused their authority. Such was the end of this important controversy, and such the wise and equitable decision of the States General, on this dispute between the tw-o companies; which has been the more largely insisted upon, because, though it fell out in Holland , yet the point in debate concerned e- qually some other countries; to fay the truth, every country, where there is an exclusive company established : And I cannot but be persuaded, that every impartial reader, who considers the reasons on both sides, as they have been before clearly stated, will be of o- pinion, that their High Mightinesses distinguished very justly between the particular advantages resulting to a company established by their authority, and the common benefit of all their subjects, for the maintaining and promoting of which their own authority is e- stablifhed. There is one thing more I must observe upon this sentence, and it is this ; that the state have given both companies a rule, by which they ought to regulate their conduct for the future; and have thereby, in ail probability, prevented such excesses, as by this sentence they punished : And yet, perhaps, this accident hindered the prosecution of the discoveries which this voyage had so happily begun. The remarks that s shall make upon this voyage shall -be confined to a few heads, and those of such a nature, as may contribute at once to the reader's amusement and information, as well as to the clearing up some points that may seem a little obscure in the foregoing voyage. In the first place, it is worth observing, that th tJVeJi India Company in Holland hath been long in a declining condition: which, instead of dispiriting the directors, has engaged them to turn their thoughts on every method that could be imagined Icr the recovery Vol.. III. 4 JL of
6Z4 COMMODORE ROGGEWEIN, 1722. of their affairs. There is so wide a difference between our companies, and those in Holland, that it may not be amiss to give a concise account of the flourishing state of this company, the rather, because it will Jhew what great things a board of merchants, for such the directors generally we re, can manage. It appears by the books of the company, that, in the space of thirteen years, that is to fay, from 1623 to 1636, they fitted out to sea eight hundred ships, either for war or trade ; and that the expence of budding, equipping, and seamen's wages, of these, cost them forty-five millions of florins; and that, in the fame space of time, they had taken from their enemy five hundred and forty-five vessels, valued in the whole at sixty millions ; besides which, their spoils amounted to thirty millions at least: But the greatest of their exploits was, that of seizing the Spanijh flota at the lla- vanna, by their admiral Peter Heyn, by which they gained seven millions of pieces of eight in money, and in ships, brass cannon, and other military stores, above ten millions: Such were the flourishing times of the company. The causes of their decay seemed to be principally these: Eirst, their emulation of the East-India .ompany, which induced them to make the conquest of Brasil from the crown pf Portugal; This they achieved at a vast expence; anti then appointed Count Maurice of Najsau gOvernour-general, who managed their affairs with great skill and prudence. But then, secondly, the desire they had of managing all things' themselves, and their repining at the expence of that prince's government, was another cause of their misfortunes ■, for the merchants, who had conducted their affairs w ithgreat wisdom and capacity, while they confined themselves to commerce, and a maritime war, shewed themselves but indifferent statesmen ; and, in a very short time, lost all that Prince Maurice had acquired, bringing, withal, such a debt upon the Company, as, in the end, compelled them to consent so a dissolution. The
to AUSTRALASIA, Scc. The new IFest-India Company, warned by the ex- 1722. ample of their predecesiors, have kept more within W ' J bounds, and have certainly managed their affairs with great œconomy and prudence. In the year j 714, they formed a project of a very extraordinary nature, which, if it had taken place, might very probably have transferred the whole commerce of Euro fe to the Dutch. This consisted in the uniting of the two companies, I mean those trading to the East and JVest Indies. In order to this, they offered to transfer all that they possessed in Africa and America to the East-India Company, " in consideration of about 120,000 1 . Sterling; which sum the proprietors of the present West-India Company were to have accepted in East-India stock; and nine directors were to have been added to the present college or board of Eajl India directors, for the management of this additional trade At the fame time, they offered a calculation, by which it appeared, that the ftinds of the ff'est-India Company, which, according to this project, were to be transferred to the East- India Company, would more than defray all the ex- pence that this conjunctionwould create The benefits that would have arisen from this incorporation of the two companies into one were many and great, and which, perhaps, is of no less consequence, equally visible and certain ; for, as things now stand, the IVest- India Company purchased the Couris and the Bosstes y which are a sort of shells that pass for money through all the flave-coast of Africa y from the East-India Company, who, on the other hand, purchased from the IVest-India Company a great part of the gold they bring from the coast of 'This kind of traffic, bythis scheme, would be entirely in the Eaft-India Company, who would immediately ingross the slave- trade into their own hands. By the erecting fortresses, and raising settlements in several parts of Africa , which would be easy for them, though the circumstances of the IVefl-India Company would never permit them to at tern id 1 h things, such a prodigious-wealth would 4 L 2 aecrue
6z6 COMMODORE ROGGEWEIN, 1722. accrue, on the one hand, by saving the expences c/ bringing home from the East-Indies commodities fit for the African trade, and from Africa goods proper for the Eafl-Indies, which, according to this plan, might be transported directly in both cases, without ever coming to Europe at all and, on the other hand, by in- larginir the commerce both ways, the power and the influence of the company would be so increased, that it would be simply impossible for other nations to contend with them in either trade. These settlements in sifrica would also be attended with another extraordinary advantage, that of discovering ieveral rich mines of gold; of which, whatever informations the We(l-India Company may have had, they never could attempt to work them, because, knowing their own weakness, they were apprehensive, that such an attempt, instead of proving advantageous to them, might have induced other nations to have attacked them, and thereby have exposed their country to the lose of what might be certainly gained, if undertaken by so powerful a body as the Eafi-India Company. The commerce of the grain-coast of Guinea , though of no considerable value to the West-India Company, would prove of incredible advantage, when in the hands of the other company ; because the grain transported from Africa is, a great part of it, consumed in the Eaft-Indies , and is so necessary a commodity there, that the East-India Company would have it in their power to raise and fall the price of pepper as they thought fit; which would enable them to bring about what they have so long endeavoured, the getting into their hands the monopoly of that, as well as other spices j which, perhaps, will never be attained by any other means. The proper commerce cf the West-Indies also would become infinitely more considerable under their management, than it would be any other way ; and this especially by erecting magazines for East-India commodities in the island oiCuracao, from whence they might be easily sent into the Spanish Weft- Indies, and would produce a mighty
*0 AUSTRALASIA, Sec. 6 jf ty profit, though sold at a much lower rate than the '722 same kind, os goods, which are annually brought into that country by the Manilla ship. How it came to pass, that this proposal was rejected, does not concern my present purpose ; and therefore I shall only observe, that, after this proposition was rejected, the directors of the IVefl-lndia Company very wisely turned their thoughts another way. It is very probable, that the encouragement they gave to Mr Roggewein' s proposition might be, in some measure, owing to the ill-treatment which this project had received : For what was more natural, after failing in their scheme of uniting their company to that of the East^Indies, than to aim at coming in for a share of these commodities, so necessary for their commerce, by some other way ? And what way lo proper as that proposed by this voyage, which would, in effect, have put the most valuable part of the Eafl-India trade into their hands: And this too accounts for the extraordinary heat and violence of the Eafl-India Company, againlt those who were concerned in this discovery. The reader will easily recollect an instance of the fame sort of spirit, which they had shown long before, in the cafe of James le Maire and what pains they took to discredit his discoveries. Here we fee the true secret of that dispute, which was so warmly managed by both companies, and so wifely decided by the States - general. When the Eafl-India Company persecuted and destroyed le Maire , the government did not interpose, because, at that time, the maintenance of the power of the Eafl-India Company was of the highest consequence to the States : but such as were concerned in that expedition appealed to the public against the injustice they had received, and were heard with all the favour they could expect : But, by degrees, as the government of Holland became more fettled, and eipe- cially since such have had a so are in the auministration of public affairs as were well acquainted vvith trade, the concerns
6 Z8 COMMODORE ROGGEWEIN, 1722. concerns of the East-India Company are considered irf a new light. That consummate statesman and patriot Johnde IVitte was the first who explained the matter clearly ; and his words are so applicable to this subject, that I cannot forbear citing them, a"s most worthy of the reader's attention : " When the East-India Company, fays he, " had attained to a certain extent of power and gran- " deur, their interests came not only to clalh with, " but grew absolutely opposite to, those of their coun- " try : For whereas the advantage of the Dutch nation " consists in the increase of their manufactures, com- " merce, and freight of siiips, the interest of the " country inclines them to promote the sale of fo- " reign manufactures, and that with the least traffic '' and navigation that is in their power. Hence it is a " settled point, that, if the East-India Company can " gain more by importing Japan cloths, Indian quilts, " carpets, chintzes, than raw silk; or if the compa- " ny, by creating a scarcity of nutmegs, mace, cloves, " cinnamon, and other spices, can raise the price of them, so as to gain as much by 100 tons, as they " would otherwise get by 1000 5 we are not to expect " that they should import those raw silks, or be at the " expence of transporting 1000 tons of spice, though " the former would assist our manufactures at home, " and the latter increase our navigation." This is so plain, and agrees so evidently with the interest of all nations, as well as of Holland, that'it is impossible for any unprejudiled person not to discern that ail exclusive companies destroy, instead of promoting, the commerce of the countries where they are established. The same great writer observes, that the more any company extends' its foreign conquests, the more of their stock must, of necellity, be spent for the preservation and defence of such conquests ; and consequently the greater their dominions, the less the company is able to mind the true interest of that trade, for the promoting of which they were erected. The reader 1
to AUSTRALASIA, Lsc. 639 reader, from the large and accurate account which we 1722. have lately given him, of the state of the Dutch com- ' >V>J pany's affairs in the East-Indies, will the more readily enter into, and fee the justice and force of, this judicious observation. This leads me to remark, that, in all countries where such companies are already established, the only method that can be taken to prevent the censequences that must attend them, is to play one company against another; that is to fay, the state ought always to encourage and protect that company, which is most inclined to promote national commerce, and the exportation of the goods and manufactures of the country in which it is settled. We have seen what advantage the Dutch draw from having a company-king amongst the Indian princes of every island ; and therefore we cannot be at a loss for the benefits, that must result from the having the nation's company amongst those exclusive companies, erected in every nation, ypon this principle it was that the states-general, in tfte present case, so much favoured the (Vcj}-India company : For a little attention will shew, that, in this instance, they were the nation's company; that is to fay, by endeavouring to discover new countries, which must have been attended with an increase of commerce, and of shipping, they pursued their country's interest, as well . as their own. And, as this is a point that deserves to be illustrated, give me leave to suppose, that, in consequence of this voyage, a settlement had been made in Eajier-ifland : In order to support this, another squadron must have been sent, together with a fresh supply of people for the colony ; and, in process of time, as * their trade and discoveries increased, annual squadrons would have gone, and returned ; which must have been highly advantageous to Holland. Besides, it is a great matter to revive a spirit os trade and discovery; for let any one consider how soon ail the continent and islands of Amerce were as well known as they are at present, After they were first sound by Columhus , and he
640 commodore roggewein, ?7 22 -he will be at no loss to discern the probability of esta-i w "' l blistiing a large trade in those southern countries, which are so imperfectly known at present. Add to this, that there cannot be a more true or certain maxim than this; that though particular persons, and especially companies, gain most by old and settled trades, yet a new commerce contributes most to the enriching of a people, because it increases the number of workmen in a!l manufactures at home, occasions the building new ships, heightens the number of seamen, and, in one word, inlarges and strengthens that spirit of industry, which is so necessary to the well-being of a trading nation. Another reason that might possibly engage the states to favour the West- India company in this design, was the tendency it had to promote that kind of navigation, which, for this last century, has fallen almost into disuse; I mean, the navigation round Cape Horn into the South-Seas, upon the discovery of which our ancestors piqued themselves with so much justice. Tne more one reflects on this, the more one is amazed at the indolence of the present age, especially considering the ill consequences that plainly result from it already. The storms about the Cape of Good-Hofe were more terrible to our ancestors, in the very dawn of navigation, than the doubling Cape Horn is to some people at this hour, after so many voyages have been made round it, and that to® by their own countrymen, as well as others. Captain Coivley passed it twice, Dampier thrice, Clips rrton as often ; and yet now, after twenty years disuse, it is become a greater bugbear than ever. It was therefore high tin e for the Butch , who saw the French yearly bringing large sums out of the South-Seas, to try whether their subjects could not be as fortunate, without engaging in a contraband trade with the Spaniards. " The author of this voyage gives a very distinct " account of the islands of Java , Borneo , the city of " l-atavia, and other Dutch settlements in the East-. Indies ,
to MAGELLANICA, &c. b' 4 r ' 4 Indies , also a very curious and particular detail of t7 22> . u their trade in that part of the world ; but we are " sorry that the bounds we have allotted to ourselves " prevents our giving them a place in this volume. " The reader may consult Harris 's Voyages page 280, be. of vol. I. ARTICLE X. LOZIER BOUVET, to Magellanica. B OUVET, on his return from this voyage, had the journal of it printed at Paris, and thence inserted in the memoirs of Trevoux, February 1740. The Sieur Buache formed a very good chart from this journal, on which he has traced exactly the route of the two vessels, and also a view of Cap Circumcision, and the i- flands of ice, which surround it. The following extract, we doubt not, will be agreeable to our readers, both on account of its utility, and also because this is its fi-rst appearance in our language. We left .Port L'Orient July 19,1738,and soaped our course for the island St. Catharine. Hence we sailed again in search of unknown lands, which, by our instructions, we were to look for about 44 degrees south- latitude, longitude 355 degrees. November 26, in lat- rude 35 degrees, longitude 344, webegan to meet with fogs, which continued close with us, and wet our cloatbs like rain, and was often so thick, that even when the two ships were so near that we would cheer our consorts crew working, yet we could not lee them. We always fired guns during the day, and had our lanthorns lighted at night, notwithstanding all which we had much difficulty to keep together. In the first Vox..ill. 4 M week
642 LOZIER BOUVET, *739-week of December, from 39, to 44 degrees latitude, we find the herb called by our sailors Goulmon , which either grows at the bottom of the sea hereabouts, or else is torn by the waves from the rocks. This lea weed we saw for many days together. Tho' it was now summer, yet the weather was cold, with frequent lhowers of hail, and claps of thunder. The birds now began to show themselves in much greater numbers than formerly. Some of these resembled land fowl, which made us think we were near some coast, but we found no ground with 180 fathoms of line. December 10, \ve found ourselves at the intersection of the 44th parallel with the first meridian, where the charts commonly place the 'Terra del Vijle , or the Cape of the Southern Continent, Still, however, we saw no land; whether it was that the fogs hindered us from seeing it, or that in reality there is no land thereabouts, except some small island, or perhaps islands of ice, which had been taken, at a distance, for a coast. On the 15th of December we first saw ice in a latitude corresponding to that of Paris. 1 was much pleased on seeing this ice, as 1 took it for a certain sign of land being near us. I had observed that the height of these icy isles generally corresponded with that of the lands near which they were formed, and these high lands are generally safe to approach. We saw some of these islands of ice so high, that we could observe them eight leagues off, and when the fogs cleared up, they presented us with several amusing figures, resembling fortresses, houses, ships, etc. In these unknown seas, the risques we run were very great, for the ice is much more dangerous than the shore, as each piece of it is a floating rock, against which, were we driven, there could be no hope of saving our lives. The smaller pieces of ice are even more dangerous than the larger, because they iwim just level with the surface of the water, and when the sea runs high, it becomes very difficult to distinguish them. These dangers began to discourage the k crews
to MAGELLANICA, &c. 643 crews, so that, in order to animate them, I read those 1739* articles of our instructions in which rewards were pro- mised in case the discovery was perfected. We now made fail to the southward, but were quickly so hemmed in with ice, that we were forced to stand east in order to find some passage. The sea here was very deep, and we saw great numbers of divers, penguins and sea wolves. The needle gave different variations on different compasses, declining 24 minutes east on one, while on another it would vary 50 minutes west, with the same irregularity of motion that has been observed on approaching the ice in Hudson 's bay and Davis 's straits. January 1, 1 739, 1 discovered land. It was exceedingly high, covered with Inow, and almost hid in fogs. From the festival celebrated on this day, I called it Cape Circumcision ; and the pilot of the Eagle, who first saw this land, had a reward of twenty piastres. It lies in 54 degrees south latitude, and about 27 degrees, or 28 degrees longitude, stretching from north-west to southeast. Its coasts are very high and rugged, and so pestered with ice, as to be quite inaccessible. We found it surrounded with little illes of pure, hard ice, standing up two or three hundred feet perpendicular, and from one, to two or three leagues in circumference. Here the needle varied 6 degrees, 50 minutes west. On the 6th of January we were suddenly surrounded by a prodigious flight of fowls, of the size of a pigeon, and quite white. We kept standing along this course during 12 days, without daring to go near the so ore, or even to send our boats asoore, on account of the fogs, the ice, and the contrary winds. Hence we stood eastward, under 57 degrees latitude, till January 25, in which time we ran 425 leagues, always along the ice, and seeing great numbers of whales, sea wolves, and cither large fishes. Despairing at length to find an inlet hereabouts, we quitted the AEftral land, which seemed inacceiiible, and stood to the north-east, in hopes of finding the coast that Gonneville landed on, and which 4 M 2 his
644 i? $ COMMODORE ANSON, his account affirms to lye in the latitude corresponding to that of France. Next we shaped a north course to longitude 52 degrees, and saw great quantities of the sea-weed we mentioned before, quite to latitude qz degrees. Here the two vessels separated, the Eagle standing for the island Bcurbon , while I returned to France with the Mary , by the way of the Cape of Good Hope. I landed the 24th of June, 1739, having not lost a man during the fatiguing voyage, except one, who sell over board near the isle of Fernand Norenba. i -+4 * t ♦♦ ♦4 4 ♦ 4 4 ♦ 4* -> 4 4 -4 44+ ♦♦ f4--i- 4 4* 4 444* 4-+4 4 4 ARTICLE X. COMMODORE ANSON, to Magellan!ca. As this famous voyage is perfectly known, by Mr AFal- ter's excellent narrative, we here take in only what relates to our present plan, that is, the Commodore's passage from Rio de Janiero , till he got into the South-Sea, round Cape Horn, with a short summary of their voyage after that, a voyage scarce ever performed before in that adverse season of the year, and which nothing but the skill and courage of Engli/h navigators could have accomplished. Pity it was, that the lives of so many of our brave countrymen were so idly sacrificed on this occasion, by the stupidity and ignorance of those, who then had the direction of publick business; who, by unnecessary delays, retarded the Commodore till the favourable season was past, and exposed him and his squadron to all the horrours and dangers of a Magel- lanick winter. Every body knows how fatal these wi re to the success of the expedition. But had Mr. Anson got round the Cape during the summer, his force would, in all human probability, have been in- tire
to MAGELLANIC A, & c . 64 Z tire when he got to the coasts of South-America • and thus he would have been enabled to have distressed Spain to a very great degree in that quarter, whence all her means of carrying on a war are derived. May his hard fate induce our ministry to Avoid similar errors, if ever a future war call upon us to act again in these seas. T T was intended, that a considerable body of land- t ^p. _£ forces should serve on board this squadron ; and J-sj accordingly yoo invalids and marines were embarked, under their proper officers, to be commanded in chief by lieutenant colonel Gracherode, now governour of Landguard fort. There were several accidents which concurred to hinder the departure of this squadron for some time; but at last, every thing being in perfect order, and their equipage in every respect complete, the Commodore gave his orders for the officers and seamen to repair on board, and that every thing should be ready for sailing by the middle of September 1740; and accordingly, upon the 16th of the month, he sired a gun as a signal to unmoor. The squadron then consisted of the following ships of war, and other vessels ; viz. Ships. Commanders. Guns, Men. Centurion, Commodore G. Arson, Esq-, 60 5*3 Gloucester , Norris, 5° 350 Severn, Lrgge, 50 350 Pearl, Mitchell, 40 250 IFager, Kidd, 18 140 Trial Sloop, The Hon. G. Murray, Esq; 16 80 Tenders. Anne Pink ; Industry, which was to go only to a certain latitude. On
646 COMMODORE AN SON, J740. On September j8, 1740, the Commodore fired a '''''■'"'gun as a signal to weigh ; and, by ten in the evening, the whole squadron was under fail. It was observed at that time, that they (ailed at a different season of the year from some who had gone that vovage before. Captain Rogers, in the Duke, sailed from Bristol in the mon th ofjune 1708 Captain Clipper t on ^ in the month of February 1719: Yet, perhaps, there was not so much in this circumstance as some people imagine ; since Sir John Nar borough, v'ho was an experienced seamen, lasted for the Straits of Magellan on the 26th of September 1669 -, and other instances might be given of great officers, who chose this season of the year. They continued their course, without meeting with any accident of importance, till on October 28, they came to an anchor in the road of Funchal , off the island of Madeira, where they found two privateer stoops, who saluted the Commodore with nine guns, and were. anlwered by seven. As this was a proper place for taking in water, wine, and other refreshments, the squadron made some stay, though it was late in the year. On the 30th, they celebrated the anniversary of his majesty's coronation and, in the beginning of the succeeding month, got everything on board as fast as possible, that they might be able to fail without delay. While they continued in Funchal road, Captain IN orris, of the Gloucester, who was in a very ill state of health, obtained leave to return home ; which occasioned some alteration in the command : For Captain Kidd, of the Wager, was made Captain of the Pearl, Captain Mitchell was removed from the Pearl into the Gloucester , Captain Murray succeeded Captain Kidd in the TVager, and Lieutenant Cheap was made Captain of the Trial stoop. They had notice here of ten fail, supposed to be Spaiiifi ships, which were cruising on and off to the westward ; but one of the privateers, which was
to MAGELLANIC A, &c. 647 was dispatched by the Commodore to look for them, 174°* returned without seeing them. On November 5, they lesc the island of Madeira , and proceeded on their voyage, the Gloucester having the Industry pink in tow. On the 17th, they lay-to, to unlade the Industry tender; which took up two or three days, and then she was discharged. They had, all this time, very pleasant weather-, and, on the 28th, passed the line with a fair wind. On the 30th, being in the latitude of 4 degrees 25 minutesfouth, they observed, with great astonishment, that the sea glittered and appeared like fire, in the night ; which, however, is a phenomenon not very unusual in those seas. In the beginning of the month of December, the crew began to be sickly ; which they attributed chiefly to the heavy rains they met with after they passed the e- quinoctial. On the 13th of that month, about noon, they crossed the Tropic of Capricorn -,and, on the 19th, had sight or the island of St. Catharine's. On the 20th about noon, they came to an anchor ; and the next day, failing nearer to the fort, came to an anchor again, and saluted the governour with eleven guns. This island, which lies upon the coast of Brafil , in the latitude of 27 degrees 30 minutes south, is very convenient for the refreshment of such ships as are bound to the South-Seas for it abounds with o- ranges, lemons, and other fruits of that kind, cabbage and banana trees, with excellent potatoes, fresh water every where in plenty, and vast quantities of herbs, which seldom tail to relieve the sick. The governour owns the authority of the king of Portugal ; but, in other respects, the island produces no great advantage to that crown. As loon as the squadron had anchored, the Commodore ordered a tent to be set up for .the use of the sick, who were furnished with fresh provisions, and whatever else was requisite for people in their condition ; and, in the meantime, the rigging was over- haled, the Trial sloop had her masts taken out, repaired, and feted up again ; and all the ships took in wood,
*48 COMMODORE ANSON, 1740.wood, water, and provisions, with all the expedition possible. On Janqary 18, 1741, about nine in the morning, they sailed from St. Catharine's, the governour of the fort saluting them with eleven guns; and the Commodore returned the like number. Notwithstanding the care taken of the 7rial sloop at the island of St. Catharine's, the was still in a very crazy condition , and on the 24th, the head of her main-mast being carried a- way, and her fore mast sprung, the Gloucester was forced to take her in tow.. On February 8, the men were put to short allowance, having two quarts of water a- day. On the nth, they had fight of land, which appeared low, flat, sandy. On the 13th they found themselves o.ff Cape Blanco, which appears, at a distance, like a long table, the adjacent country flat and low. For several days afterwards, they saw abundance of penguins, a bird we have before described, and cither water-fowl. On the 17th in the afternoon, a fail appearing, the Commodore made a signal for thtGlou- cefter to chafe; which she accordingly did, and, coming up with her about eleven, found her to be the Pearl, which had been separated from the squadron by an hard gale on the 22d of the last month. She had been chased on the 7th by five large Spanist) men of war, and escaped from them in the night. Having thus rejoined the squadron, they sailed along-shore in search of the river of St. 'Julian, The next day, they anchored on the coast in thirty three fathoms water, and sent in a boat nearer the shore to look for the harbour. They had observed, for several days, that the lea was discoloured in many places, and looked like blood ; a thing often observed before, and usually attributed to a kind of shrimps, or cray-fiih. The land appeared rocky and barren, with several white cliffs. They saw a mountain about eight miles distant, lying south-west by west, shaped like a sugar-loaf, and is called Woods- hill-, which is looked upon as the mark of the harbour ef St. Julian. The next day, they entered the harbour
to MAGELLANIC A, & c . 649 hour so famous for having received the squadron com- 174*- manded by Magellan , when he first discovered a pas- '^ rJ sage this way into the South Sea, and for the stay made here by Sir Francis Drake , in his voyage round the V/orld, as well as for the mutinies of both their crews in this harbour. Port St. 'Julian , oh the coast of Patagonia, lies in the latitude of 49 degrees 11 minutes south, and in the longitude of 80 degrees west from London. There is a bar before the harbour, where, at low water, there are not above ten feet water. The harbour's mouth is in the middle of the bay, which cannot be- discovered without, because of one point shutting in the other. Just without the bar, lies a small flat island, about a league from land, which Drake called the Island of true justice , because he there tried and executed Mr. Doughty. Over-again st this island, the land is high : two leagues farther to the south, it is low, and runs into a great plain and beach lying south south-west and north north-east. At the south end of this beach are high round hills ; but the sea-side is a steep white cliff, moderately high, with a black streak in it. The hill o- ver this cliff rises, as is before observed, in the form of a sugar-loaf, having some black bushes on the sides, tho' there is neither tree nor bush to be seen in the neighbourhood. In the middle of the harbour, there is from seventeen to nineteen feet water, the bottom a fine black sand. The flood runs here fouth-south west, and the .ebb north north cast, at the rate of two miles and an half in the hour. The Commodore hoisted his longboat, and sent on shore two lieutenants, with a detachment, to examine he country, and to go to the salt- ponds, which lie about a league to the north-west ; in which expedition they employed two days, and then returnedwith a considerable quantity of salt; but without seeing any inhabitants. As this was the first land they had touched at since their departure from St. Catharine' s, and Captain Kidd of the Pearl dying in his passage, he was succeeded by Vot. II!. 4 N Captain
6yo COMMODORE ANSON, r? 4 i- Captain Murray out of the Wager ; who had for his successour Captain Cheap , who commanded the Trial stoop ; and his lieutenant, Mr. Sanders , was appointed commander of the Trial. There was a report at this time in the squadron, that Captain Kidd should say upon his death -bed, that this voyage,'in which they had engaged with so much cheerfulness, and such high expectations of acquiring immense fortunes, would, in the end, produce, poverty, vermin, famine, death, and destruction'. 1 am persuaded from the language, as well as the spirit, of this pretended prophecy, that it could never fall from the lips of a gentleman bred in the service. An Englijh officer knows his duty too well to make the rncrcafe of his fortune the cause of his serving his country cheerfully ; and would never breathe discontent amongst his sailors by any such declaration 1 am therefore convinced, that this was afterwards invented by such, as wanted an excuse' to colour their own bad behaviour; but, no doubt, the circulating such stories had a very ill effect on the . minds of the seamen, and, by depressing their spirits, contributed to produce the mischiefs, that they seemed to predict. The squadron remained here about a week in which time they overhaled and repaired their rigging, supplied themselves with fait, and received their proportion of stores out of the Trial and Anne pink ; but, as they were not able to meet with water on that coast, their allowance was reduced to a quart per man, and three pints for the sick. On the 27th, the squadron failed ; and the Gloucester, not being able to purchase her anchors, cut, and put to sea, leaving her belt bower, and a third of a cable, behind. On March 4. they had sight of Cape Virgin Mary , at the entrance of the straits ot Magellan, bearing south-west by south. On the 6th, they first saw Terra del Fuego , an high rocky shore, full of precipices, the tops of which were covered with lhow. On the 7 th § at five in the afterr.o m ; the signal w s made
to MAGELLANICA, &c. 651 made to Iie-to ; and, at four in the morning, the 174 1 - Commodore sired guns, as a signal to make fail. A- u ' y ' J bout seven, they had light of the 'Three Brothers on Terra del Fuego , at the very entrance of the Straits of le Maire. At ten, they entered the Straits, with a brisk gale, and a strong current setting in. Cape Diego an Terra del Fuego bore north-west by west, distant three leagues; and the opposite Cape of St. Antonia on Statss- Land east north east. Having the wind and tide with them, they were, by two in the afternoon, quite thro' the straits ; so that a finer passage was never made. These Straits of le Maire lie in thelatitude of 55 degrees 45 minutes south, in a manner, due north and south. They are between seven and eight leagues wide ; and the passage thro' it very little more. The land on both fides consists of high craggy rocks, covered with snow The opposite Capes, on the south-side of these Straits, are Cape Genzales on Terra del Fuego , and Cape St. Bartholomew on States-Land. The weather .now began to grow extremely cold ; and, as they had hard gales, and a rolling sea from the south-west, both stops and men suffered exceedingly, more especially the Gloucester and the IVager. On the 27 th, the Gloucester made a signal of distress, having broken her main-yard ; on which the Commodore ordered two carpenters and a smith, from the Pearl , to assist in repairing it. On the 31st, her main- yard broke again ; and, on April 1. the Commodore ordered the carpenter of the PPager on board her. On the 3d, Ihe shipped a sea that walhed the barge off the boom, stove the pinnace, and filled her long-boat lull of water, by which she suffered very much. On the 7th, a like accident happened to her. On .the 8th, the Wager lost her mizen-mast ; and, upon a roll of a sea, all her chain-plates broke to windward. On the 9th, the Anne pink made a signal of distress, hav~ ing broke her fore-stay, and damaged her bowsprit. On March 10. being in the latitude of 54 degrees south, they had sight of two islands, which bore from them north-north-west, about the distance of eight 4 N 2 leagues
652 COMMODORE ANSON, 1741* leagues. They lost sight this day of the Severn and th^ Pearl-, which ships repaffed the Straits of le Maire , and took shelter on the coast of Brasil. On the 1 2th, they had very hard gales at west ; and, between fix and seven in the morning, a prodigious sea broke into the Wa-' ger ; which carried Mr. Bulkely the gunner of the ship, who was standing upon deck, over the wheel, bulged the cutter, and filled the long boat full of water. The boatswain was for heaving the cutter overboard; but the gunner insisted upon having the Captain's directions, who was sick in his cabin. He ordered her by all means to be saved ; which was accordingly done. The carpenter of the Wager was all this time on board the Gloucester. On the 13th the Commodore being then on the weather-quarter of the Wager, bore down under her lee, in order to speak with Captain Cheap ; and accordingly the Captain being brought upon deck the Commodore asked him, if the carpenter was returned from the Gloucester. The Captain answered, No-, and I am surprised Captain Mitbell should detain him, when he knows 1 mustwant him about my mizen-mast. The Commodore told him, he Would speak with the Gloucester, and ordered him on board. He then asked the Captain, why he did not set the main-top-sail, and make more sail. Captain Cheap answered, my rigging is all gone, and broke fore-and aft ; and my people almost all taken ill, and down •, but I will set them as soon as possible. The Commodore desired he would, and make what soil he could after him. On the 14th the carpenter returned from the Gloucester, it being the only day in a fortnight a boat could live in the sea. As soon as the carpenter came on board, ke waited on the Captain, who ordered him to look on the chain-pktes and chains, and to give his opinion of the mast's going away. The carpenter looked as ordered, and told Captain Cheap, that the chain-plates were all broken. The Captain shook his head, and said, carpenter, that. is not the reason of the mast's going awav. The carpenter, as the mast was gone, not caring to charge it on
H to MAGELLANIC A, &c. 6 5i on any one's mismanagement, or to occasion any one's 1742. uneasiness about what was now past prevention, fitted a cap on the stump of the mizen mast, got up a lower studding-sail-boom of forty feet, and hoisted a sail to keep the ship to. This day they saw land in the latitude of 54 Degrees 5 Minutes, which, without doubt, was the Black Cape on the coast of Terra del Fttego. For some days after this, the weather was moderately good ; and, having long enough doubled Cape Home , there seemed to be no great danger of parting company. On April 79, there were some hard gales -, and they lost sight of the G/cucefler and Wager , the latter of which they never saw again ; a very strange accident, considering they had now better weather than at any time since their pasting the Straits, and were but at a moderate distance from the island of Juan Fernandez. Which island the Commodore made on June 8, 1741, soon after which they were joined by the Tryal stoop, the Anna pink, and the Gloucejler, The crews of the whole ships being now reduced to about three hundred, were put ashore to refresh; after which, about the middle of September, they sailed on a cruize, took several vessels with a large quantity of silver on board. On the 10th of November, they attacked the town of Payta in the latitude of 5 degrees south, which they plundered of about 1,300,000 pieces of eight and other valuable effects ; after which, they burnt the 1 town, and on the 14th, they failed and continued cruising towards Acapulco , till July 1742, taking several prizes. About this time, they sailed for the La- drone Islands, and in their way, burnt the Glmcefler (the other vessels being, for want of hands and other causes, destroyed before,) finding her so leaky, that she could not with safety proceed further. On the 28th of August, the Centurion arrived at the island of Tinian , where having refreshed the crew, they sailed for Canton in China , where they arrived about the beginning of pecember; there having refitted th ? Centurion, and staid
A LETTER from the 6§4 1743-staid some months,, they afterwards failed among the w '-' Philippine islands, till the 21st June, 1743, when they eng'ged and took the Spanish galleon called the Nues- tra Signora del Cabo-Dongo on board of which they found about a million and a half of pieces of eight, besides other rich merchandize, after which they returned to Canton in China , and on the 16th of December they failed for Europe: On the 12th of March, 1744, they arrived at the Cape of Good Hope , and failed in about z weeks for England, in company with som t Dutch and English merchant-lhips, and arrived safely on the 16th of June 1744, at St. Helen's in the Iste of Wight. As the following letter from theEIon. Geo. Murray, Esq; to the Secretary of the Admiralty, gives a particular account of the ships Severn and Pearls since their separation from their Commodore, it is thought a' proper Supplement to Lord Anton's Voyage. We are obliged to Mr. Murray , for his being so good as to communicate this Journal. ExtraSl of a Letter from Capt. Murray, Commander of His Majesty's jhip Pearl, to Thomas Corbet, Esq-, Secretary to the Right Honourable the Lords of Admiralty , 474s SIR, Rio de Janeiro, June, 1741. C OMMODORE Anfon failed from St. Katharine's the 20th January, and, in the latitude of 34 degrees, met a hard gale of wind, which carried away the Pry al's main-mail by the second woulding; and, when the weather cleared up, we found the Pearl miffing, who did not join us until the 17th February, about 10 leagues north-east by north from St. Julian's Bay ; when the first lieutenant acquainted the Commodore with the death of Captain Kidd, and that, in the latitude of 55 degrees, he met five fail of snips, which he took for our squadron, and bore down to them; but discovering them to be Spaniards , made away; and, as the
Hon. GEORGE MURRAY, Esq. 655 the (hip was very deep, he found himself obliged to f'a-r. have 16 tuns of water, and to throw the long boat, '^ r * J bulkheads, and several other things over board, in order to lighten the lhip, FebrUary 17, Mr. Ansoit was pleased to remove me from the IVager to the command of the Pearl , and, on my mustering the ship's company, I found 2-6 to be tiie number borne, and that there was no more than 32 tons of water on board. On my representing this, the Commodore was pleased to order me 1 3 tons of water from the IPager, directing me allo to put my people to an allowance of three pints on meat days, and a quart on banyan-days. At this allowance, he reckoned me to have 80 days water from the 19th February. After having cleared our (hips, and refitted the Try- s/, we failed from St. Julian's, Bay February 28, with orders, in cafe of separation, to make the best of our way to the island of Neuftra Seniora del Seccura , and to continue cruizing ten days; thence to proceed to the port of Baldavia , and to continue cruizing 14 days off that harbour; and thence to the island of Juan Fernandez, and to follow former orders received at St. Katharine's. March 7th, we passed through the Straits of Le Mair, and, two days after, were taken with a violent gale of wind at fouth-fouth-east, which obliged us to reef our courses; and, from this day to the totti of May, we never attempted carrying them with tne * , teefs out. After this first gale, the wind continued co blow excessive hard from the south-west to the northwest, accompanied with such seas as I never saw before ; which obliged us to lie-to several days under a double reeft and balance-mizen, though, the moment there was any possibility of shewing canvas, we made fail, which frequently occasioned the splitting and blowing of our sails away a loss 1 could but ill support, having a sent of fails less than any other ship in the squadron, though, to my knowledge, there was , an
A LETTER from the 656 174 1 - an order lodged at Portsmouth, for our ships being sup' Vor ° plied with every thing they ihould demand. To provide againlt the want of fails, as well as I could, I kept the fail-makers continually employed in my cabbin. As we continued beating to windward. Between the latitude of 55 and 60 degrees, we soon became'sensible of the ill effects both of the rigour of the climate, and the short allowance of water ; for my men fell down a-pace, insomuch, that 1 had never less than 80 or 90 on the sick list, and generally buried two or three of a day : Besides, the runuting rigging grew so stiff, that every thing required double the purchase it would have done in a moderate climate, which obliged me to have recourse to tackles, and the turning all hands out on every occasion. April 10, it blowing very hard at north-west by west, with drizzling rain, at six, perceiving myself to gain on the Commodore, being in my station on his wea- ther-quarter, I turned all hands out, and hauled up the main-sad, and kept company until 8 ; then lost sight of his lights, steering at that time south by west. At 9, I lay west by south. At it, 1 plainly saw a light on my weather-bow ; upon which 1 turned to steep. At 1, the Lieutenant of the watch called out to acquaint me, the foresail was blown out of the bolt ropes that we had snapped two of the fore-chain plates, and lost sight of the light: Upon this, I braced up the yards, to give me as much headway as possible, waiting for day-light with impatience. At day break, I made up to the Severn, Captain Legg, lying to under a double re eft and balanced mizen, with his head u) north, and his yards lowered down a portland. The wind abating, I set my main and fore stay fails, and ran up with Captain Legg, who at xo bore away. One of his mates thinking he law a fail to the south-east, it being now clear weather, we therefore stood east-fouth- east a miles; but discovering nothing, Capt. Legg br- ught to on the larboard tack, and I an my star- board-rack. In order to six two new chain-plates, the carpenter,
Ho*. GEORGE MURRAY, Esq. 657 carpenter, who was obliged to go over board himself 174 T - to drive the bolts, for he had lost all his crew, was driven under the chains, whereby he received so much damage, as to be ever since incapable of doing duty. In our situation this was a melancholy circumstance, to have never a carpenter able of doing duty ; when, besides the continual call we had for them, my main top-mast being much galled, and not trust-worthy. I this morning discovered the bolt-sprit to be sprung, and rotten in the gammong-, but gave the strictest charge, that it might be kept private, since there waj no possibility of fishing him. April 13, as we were standing north by west, the wind at west'by north, we made land at day-break, stretching away from the east-south-east, to the vvest- north-west, about five or six leagues. I was then, by my account, in the latitude of 54 degrees, 53 minutes, and in the longitude of 20 degrees, 50 minutes, from the Straits of Le Maire , and, according to our charts, at least 11 degrees to the westward of any part of Terra del Faego. Providence was very favourable to us; for it must have gone hard with me, had I fallen in with the land in the night-time, as 1 could not have wore the stop, and clawed it off, in the condition I was in. We had hardly wore, when there came on a thick fog, which prevented my being satisfied what land it was. Up m this unexpected discovery, 1 put the ship's conir pany to a pint of water per man a day -, but soon found the fatal estects of so small an allowance, losing 5 men one day, and 6 the next; and the sick list increased to 133; upon which 1 restored them to their former allowance. Those poor men, who had stood the deck with a resolution, not to be met with in any but Eng- li(h seamen, though they were thinly clad, having sold their doatiis at St. Katharine's, and, when chaced by the Spaniards, had thrown.bulkheads, half-ports, and tarpaulins over board, for want of which they were continually wet in their hammocks, the tarpaulins I made, being of little service for want of (un to harden Vol. III. 4 O the
658 A LETTER from the, &c. J 74 1 -the tar-, yet, under all these difficulties and discou- ragements, they behaved hitherto beyond expectation ; but, being now quite jaded and fatigued with continual labour and watching, and pinched with the cold and want of water, on discovering how far we were out of our computation, they became so dejected, as to lay themselves down in despair, bewailing their misfortunes, wishing for death as the only relief to their miseries, and could not be prevailed on, by threats or entreaties, to go aloft: So that, had not my lieutenants, and master behaved with the greatest courage, and done the duty of fore-mast-men, by going aloft themselves on all occasions, I do not know what must have become of us, April 14, Captain Legg begged me to fend a boat on board, because he had something of importance to communicate ; on which I went myself, being hoisted out in the boat, and with difficulty got on board the Severn , where Captain Legg, after consulting our present circumstances, having previously taken me under his command, he resolved to beat to the iouth, until he arrived, in the latitude of 38 degrees, 30 minutes; then, if the wind did not prove favourable, to make the best part of our way to the first friendly port. April 16, being in that latitude, and no appearance of the wind's changing, Mr. Legg made the signal to bear away. Six days after we bore up, we met with a violent gale at north-east, in which 1 lost company with the Severn , whom i did not join until May ; and June 3, got fate into Rio Janeiro on the coast of Bra- sil, when I had but three casks of water on board : So that, if it had not pleased God to take off so many of my men, we must all have perished for want or water. Since our arrival here, where we have been received with great humanity, my sick men, upon going ashore, and being supplied with fresh provisions, are in so fair a way or recovery, that the Pearl may, in a short time, with the assistance of twenty men, go to sea with 200 men, and endeavour to join the Commodore.
6 S0 Antonio ulloa, & c . inodore. I mention that number, because I think it 1 74 1 - sufficient for that service nor is there any thing 1 so earnestly desire, as to make another attempt, and really most firmly believe, we stiould succeed : But is the .extreme desire I have once more to join my Commander, whom 1 don't believe to be lost, cannot be gratified, 1 think I ought, at least, to proceed to the island os Barbadoes, where 1 may more conveniently know their Lordships directions, and, in the mean time, be employed against the enemy; whereas, by lying here, 1 conceive 1 a.m so long lost to the government. 1 am sorry, it is my unhappiness, that Capt. Legg, for whose person I have the greatest regaid, and to whose merits and abilities I pay the greatest deference* is not of my opinion ; but has taken me under his command, and detains me here, thinking that the most .prudent step. ARTICLE XII. DON ANTONIO ULLOA to Magellanica. TN the Bay of Conception , we found the Louis Erafine 1735. j[ frigate, which had waited there some time, in order to sail in company with us; and, on the 6th of January, 1735, we were joined by the Lys, accompanied with another French ship, called La Marquis d' Anti Which having come hither as a register-ship, had taken' in a loading of cacao at GuaquiE and was in her return to Europe. The season being far advanced, our little squadron put to sea the first fair wind ; which happened on the 27th of January, when, about ten in the morning, we all got under sail, steering west and west one quarter northerly, according as the winds would permit, which were continually varying from southwest to south-south-east. On the fourth of February, 4 o 2 we
66 o ANTONIO ULLOA, 1735-we found ourselves in the latitude of 35 degrees, 21 minutes, and 9 degrees, 38 minutes, west of the me ridian of Conception ; when the wind blowing fresh at south-west by west, we tacked in order to stand to the southward. The next day we were informed that £ very dangerous leak had been discovered in the head of the Lys, and that it was so far under water as not to be stopped without going into some harbour, and lightening the ship; which had determined the Captain to run into tome of the harbours of Chili in order to stop the leak ; accordingly he left the rest of t he fleet the fame day. The Deliverance, on board of which I embarked, was in little better condition, making daily a great deal of water ever since our departure from Conception. But the Captain, unwilling to lole the benefit of failing in company, and, at the lame time, fearful that his men would leave the snip, determined to keep the sea. He also apprehended, that as the ship's hull was very old, and greatly shattered by her late voyage, on being searched, the necessary repairs would require a considerable time 5 and thence, besides the costs, he would find it difficult to get round the Cape that year. These considerations determined him to continue his voyage, without acquainting the other ships of the bad condition of his vessel. But this prudence had nearly proved fatal to all on board, as the defects were greatly increased during the course of the voyage. Till the 6th the winds were variable, sometimes fresh, then dying away ; the sea proportionable, running high in afresh gale, and abating with the wind. From the latitude of 35 degrees, 21 minutes, we steered between the south east and south, and on the 1 2th, being in the latitude of 41 degrees, 20 minutes* we were obliged to steer between south-west and west till the 18th ; when we found ourselves in the latitude of 45 degrees, 20 minutes. The winds were first at west, afterwards north-north-east, from which they ©hanged to east-north-east and north-east, and varying continually
66 1 to MAGELLANIC A, &t. continually, at last shifted to south-east-south and east. 1735. During this interval, every change of the winds was attended with calms and violent showers ; and at other times the sea was covered with fogs, or the atmosphere so croudedvvith vapours as to intercept the rays of the fun. From the time we left Conception till the yth of February, being then in 3ft degrees, 12 minutes, and 9 degrees, 20 minutes, west of the meridian of Conception^ we always saw that kind of birds called parde- las, but here they left us. On the nth, in the latitude of 40 degrees, 45 minutes, and something more to the westward than on the yth, we saw a number of small black birds, flying singly, and against the current of the water. On the 15th, the weather being fair, but the wind blowing fresh at west-fouth-west, we saw a quebrantahuessos, or olsifrage; and on the 1 6th, being in the latitude of 43 degrees, 31 minutes, and 11 degrees, 24 minutes, west of the meridian of Conception, we saw several flights of cufiews and pardelas; and the quebrantahuessos kept continually in light- of the ship : soon after the wind came about to the southwest;, and blew so strong, that the frigates were obliged to hand all their fails except their courses. On the 18th the wind abated, the sea, which ran exceeding high, became tolerably smooth, and the quebrantahuessos disappeared at the beginning of this welcome change of weather. From the 13th to the 26th our course was east, one quarter southerly, and south east, one quarter easterly ; the winds being variable between south-iouth-vvest and west-south-west, with some short transition to northwest. From the 26th to the 3d of March, we steered east-south-east and east, with the fame winds, but so very variable, that from west they shifted to the southwest, and from thence flew about to the east ; so that in this interval they blew from every point of the compass, but rarely continued a single day in one direction, sometimes for three or four hours we had a fresh gale, this
66z ANTONIO ULLOA, 1 735 - this soon died way, and was often succeeded by calms j being regular only in inconstancy. On the 20th of February* we had a strong gale of wind at welt-fouth-west, which obliged us to double reef our topi ails. We were then in 48 degrees, 2 minutes latitude. On the 21st, the wind abated, and continued so all the morning with an easy lea. At noon the wind freshened, and a storm came on at west-north- west, and west-south-west, so that we could carry only our reefed courses. The storm continued till the 23d about sun-fet, when we let out our reefs in our courses, and set our top sails* after reefing them. During the whole time we had a very hollow sea, and at the same time the atmosphere so hazy, that sometimes we lost sight of the otherlhips. This fog precipitated itself in a drizzling rain, which continued incessantly two days after the storm was over. On the 20th, we were amused with tile sight of 3 great number of birds of all sizes, and among them one larger than a goose, and entirely black. On the 21 st their numbers increased •, some of which were larger than the quaberantahuelsos, but seemed to be of the same species. All the feathers of this bird were white, except those on the upper part of its wings, which were brown. On the 22d* when we were in the latitude of 51 degrees 2 minutes, and 9 degreees 35 minutes west of the meridian of Conception , they continued with us in the fame-numbers. On the 226 they increased, and among them were several gulls. The feathers on the bodies of the latter were white, their tails short, and broad, their necks large, but. well-pro- portioned, and their heads and beaks answerable : on the upper part of their wings the feathers were blacks and white underneath j the wings very disproportionate in length, and considerably crooked at the middle articulation. This bird flies very swiftly, sometimes just above the surface of the water, then mounts into the air; and after taking two or three gyrations, they again dart down near the water's edge, On the 25th, the weather
to MAGELLANICA, &c. 663 weather being foggy, with a drizzling rain, in the lati- J 735* rude 35 degrees 6 minutes, and 6 degrees 42 minutes, west of the meridian of Conception , we saw great numbers of birds, and among them the quabrantahuessos of both the kinds already mentioned, and on the 26th several toninas, a kind of wild ducks. On the 27th we had little or no wind, with snow and hail. The birds strewed themselves in greater numbers and variety than before-, but the most numerous were gulls, like those already described, but the colours lomething different-, some being of an ash .colour, others had their whole bodies white, and their wings black, and others the reverse. Some, though very few, were entirely black, without the least spot of white. We also saw among them the toninas, with their white bellies and brown backs. On the ist of March, being in the latitude of 57 .degrees 90 minutes, and o degrees 3 minutes east of the meridian of Conception^ we saw some whales, but the number of birds were considerably diminished : the snow and hail still continued; the dense clouds, which were continually forming in that part of the horizon when the winds blow, precipitating themselves in these meteors; and though the winds were moderate, the clouds were constantly gathering. On the 3d we had thick weather; the cold became extreme, and a great deal of snow fell. The birds also returned in their former numbers; principally of the larger fort. On the same day, at noon, in the latitude of 58 degrees 40 minutes, and 4 degrees 13 minutes E. of the meridian of Conception , a little west of the meridian of Cape Horn , and bo leagues to the southward of it ; we altered our course, steering E. N. E, and continu ed sailing between that and the N. E. till the 28th of the same month. But the winds were so variable and unsettled, that there was scarce a day in which they did not blow from two different quarters, and sometimes from points almost opposite. On
664 ANTONIO ULLOA, 1735' On the 4th, we had fair weather, with the wind at k " v N. N. E. and W ; on the 5th, at S. E. and W; on the 6th, S. and S. W. changing round the whole compass, and scarce ever continuing a day in one point, till the 8th, when we found ourselves in the latitude of As degrees 15 minutes, and 14 degrees 30 minutes E. of the pieridian of Conception , having' weathered both Cape Horn and StatenLand, It snowed and hailed continually, so that it was fix inches deep on the deck; but now it began to diminish, and with it the cold. The birds likewite no longer appeared in such vast flocks and on the 7th, we saw a new species of a dark brown colour, greatly resembling geese, and, like them, kept swimming on the water lor a long time. On the 8th we saw birds of a brown and white colour, in small flocks, of ten or fifteen in each. These also swam on the water, and when flying, kept always near the surface. On the 9th,' being in the latitude of 54 degrees 21 minutes, and 16 decrees 10 minutes E. of the meridian of Conception , besides the lame flocks of birds, we also saw pardelas, but of a less size than those in the South Sea. On the io h, in the latitude of 54 degrees 1 minute, qnd 17 degrees 38 minutes E. of Conception , the winds were very variable between the N. N. E. and S. W. with lo thick a fog, that the ships fired guns to avoid running foul of one another ; foreaenhad kept two guns mounted tor making signals. We had also heavy showers, and in the evening saw flocks of birds, most of them of middling size, with dark brown feathers, and slender crooked wings. The whole difference between them consisted in the size, their form and colour being perfedly alike - y ,and though we saw them during the whole day, they were in the greatest numbers from four to six in the evening. On the nth, being in the latitude of 5 'i degrees 15 minutes, and 18 degrees 9 minutes E. of Conception , we observed that the colour of the water was changed, it being now greenish ; but another day's sailing brought us into water of its usual colour. On the 12th and 13th,
To MAGELLANIC A, &c. 665 13th, the wind blew fresh at N. W. and W. accompa-1735. hied with heavy showers, but of no long continuance, w '" # nor attended with any bad consequences. Among the birds, l'ten these two days, and which were more numerous than before, two species in particular engaged my attention ; one large, retembling vultures, with black wings, and their bodies of a light brown spotted with white-, the other, though little different in colour from the former, did not exceed the pardelas in size-, both forts kept near the ship -, and our men told us they had seen a shoal of fish, which had probably drawn such numbers together. On the 14th, the wind variable betwixt the W. N. W. and S. W. and our latitude 40 degrees 12 {[minutes, we began to be sensible of an agreeable change in the temperature of the air ; in the day-time it was not cold upon deck, and at night the cabins were warm. On the 15tin we had a fresh gale at W. N. W. and N. W. with a hollow sea, which continued the two following days, being the 3 6 th and 17 th, the weather was very hazy, sudden showers frequent, and the fame number of birds still continued. On the 16th the Marquis d'Ancin came along-side and told us, that the ship had sprung a leak, and that they had laboured the whole night to stop it, having, after a long search, found it to proceed from a hole made by the rats in one of her quarters near the water's edge. This obliged them to heel the ship, in order to stop it, and the other two slackened sail that she might come up with them. On the 17th, we saw many large whales, several of which played round the ship for a considerable time. The wind during the last day was at S. E. and at S. S. E, but moderate; the sea smooth, with showers of rain-, when we found ourselves in the latitude of 44 degrees 40 minutes, and 25 degrees 13 minutes E. of Conception, and law several slights of birds both of the large and small species, but different in colour from any we had seen before, being entirely white. Vol. JII. 4 P The
666 ANTONIO ULLOA, 1735. The water now increased so prodigiously in our W ' J ship, that for some days our men had been almost continually labouring at the pump, which quite exhausted their spirits; and all of us were under the greatest apprehensions of pcrshing. Nor was this a sudden pannic, the water sometimes increasing so suddenly, that notwithstanding all our effort-s it seemed to gain upon us. We observed, that the principal leaks were at the head and stern, and the 19th proving a sine day, we hoisted out our boat, for the carpenters to nail sheet lead over the seams but the sea ran too high for them to execute it. On the 2.0th, the .wind blowing strong at N. and N. E. one quarter northerly, and the Tea running high, we laid to, under our mainsail; but rain coming on, we had next day moderate weather. The wind continued in the same quarter till the 25th, but little of it, with fogs, and showers^ We were now in the latitude of 36 degrees 14 minutes, and 30 degrees 5 minutes E. of the meridian of Conception. During these days we saw ieveral birds, but in much less numbers,th^n before ; some of them very different, as black pardelas, and others of the some colour, but of an unknown species.. The water in our stop was now so greatly increased, and our men so spent with continually labouring at the pump, that we had thoughts of quitting her; and doubtless this would have been done some days before, had it not been for her valuable cargo; having on board near two millions of Peruvian dollars, a million and a half of which was in gold and silver, and stowed under the cacao she had taken at Guacaquil. In order therefore, in some measure, to keep out the water, a sail quilted with oakum, and shot fastened to the clues to sink it, was lowereu into the water from the head of the snip; but this expedient had little effect, For though at sirst the water did not seem to enter with the rapidity as before, yet the oakum which prevented it, wa"
to MAGELLANIC A, &c. 667 was soon carried away, when our condition was not! 1735. mended in the least. From the 29th, when we were in the latitude of 35 degrees 38 minutes, and 33 degrees 27 minutes E. pf the meridian of Conception , our course was W. N. W. till the 5th of April, when till the 20th we steered between the N. L. and E. N. E. with the same variable weather, showers, hard gales, and calms. So that during this long interval of twenty-nine days, our latitude diminished little more than nine degrees and a half, finding ourselves in the latitude of 15 degrees 55 minutes: and between the twenty-eight and twen- ty-ni.nth degree we were detained from the 7th to the 15th, without being able to make better way. On the 29th of March, we saw pardelas, and the other kind of black birds. On the 30th we took down our weather boards, and got our top-gallant-masts up. During this time the birds seemed to have entirely forsaken us ; and, on the 3d of April, we saw great numbers ; but on the 5th and 6th we saw a new species, resembling a lark in sit ape and size. Here we had also a first fight of the doradot; and from hence we never missed seeing that fish and also the bonito, On the 8th, in the latitude of 28 degrees 58 minutes, we began to meet with very thick fogs, violent and frequent squalls of wind and rain, which continued with little or no intermission to the the 13th, but that day proving fair, we made use of it in getting up and mounting our guns. The carpenters and caulkers were ordered into the boat, to endeavour to stop the leaks at the water's edge-, for though they had nailed sheet-lead over the seams, it did not answer the purpose, the water nearly issuing with the same rapidity. On the 18th, bein^ in the latitude of 26 degrees 52 minutes, we shit law the flying fisti, and taburones, afterwards we had continual sight of them, their numbers increasing in proportion as we lessened our la- pude. In the latitude of 39 degrees 15 minutes, on the 4 P 2 26 th %
668 ANTONIO ULLOA, *735- 26th of March, Don Pedro de Arriago, freighter both of the Louis Erasme, and La Deliverance, made an offer to the Captains, that if they thought it necessary, provisions and water growing scarce, they might put into the harbour of Monte Video, where they might not only refit the ships, and provide them with all necessaries, but also take the benefit of a convoy, the Asia man of war being to fail for Spain about that time, with Commodore Don Joseph Piearro; adding, that it was the more advifeable to embrace this opportunity, advice having been received from Europe , three or four days before their departure from Conception, that France and England were ar war. But the captains, from selfish motives, rejected this salutary proposal, though at the same time they must be sensible, that the want of water and provisions, together with the bad condition of our frigate, would unavoidably oblige them to put into the harbour. After this, in opposition to the worthy merchant's advice, they determined it should be the desal t Island of Fernando de Norona-, for though the Portuguese of Brasil had some time since sent a colony thither, it was abandoned on account of its sterility. The French India Company had also for some time a settlement there, but were obliged, on the fame account, to leave it and during the time of that settlement, the captain of the Marquis d' Antin had been there, and thence knew that it abounded with water and wood, the two articles mostly wanted. Don Pedro Arriago adhered to his first proposal, and it had doubtless been complied with by the two frigates freighted by him, had not the Mar- quis d 1 Antin been in company, the captain of which made use of such plausible reasons in support of his opinion, that it prevailed, and we accordingly steered for the harbour of Fernando de Nercna. From the 20th to the 26th of April, we had calms and squalls, and from thence to the 8th of May, when we found ourselves in the latitude of 16 degrees 58 minutes, we had little wind, and variable between the N.
to MAGELLANIC A, 8tc. 669 N. and E. but mostly at N. E. nearly. On the 8th, 1733. the wind began to freshen, and though for several days it was at E. and E. N. E. we had it generally at E. 8. E. till our arrival at Fernando de Norona. Our course from the 30th of April, was as the winds would permit, sometimes N. N. W. N. W. one quarter northerly, and W. N. W; but from the 7th of May, when the wind settled to the eastward, we steered N. and N. one quarter easterly to the 15th, when finding ourselves in the latitude of 4 degrees 8. being nearly the fame with that of Fernando de Norona , we stood directly W. and having fight of it at half an hour after nine in the morning of the 21st of May, all the frigates at half an hour after three in the evening came to an anchor in the road. This voyage had continued an hundred and fifty day, and was attended with great fatigue and anxiety, on account of the bad condition of our frigate. For more than once, we had the greatest reason to apprehend she would founder, before we had time to provide for our safety. ARTICL E XIII. HEN BRIGNON to Magellanic.!. The history of this voyage was written by the Sieur de la BlancharAiere, of the Congregation of St. Sulpi- cius , and printed at Paris, 1751, in nmo. Though lhort, it is here of some importance, both as it never appeared in Efiglijh before, and chiefly as it presents us with a very different account of the passage round Cape Horn, from what we have seen in Mr. ./Inson's, Journal, who met with most dreadful storms in these seas, only because he attempted the passage in the winter season. WE
670 HEN BRIGNON, 1747' H/E sailed from the road of St. Malo Nov. i8 ? w '° W 1745, aboard the Conde, commanded by Monsieur le Hen Brignon. After a long stay at Cadiz , we sailed for the Smth Sea, and, March 7, 1747, in the latitude of 47 degrees, 12 minutes south, we saw vast quantities of rock-weed, whose leaves were much broader than those on the coasts of France, This weed is often seen 100 leagues at sea. We aho saw many birds of a black colour swimming in the sea, and some of a white colour flying round us. At 6 in the evening, we found the ocean covered with an infinite number of small red fish, of the bigness of a middling lobster, and they had pincers like theirs. We killed there a bird resembling a pigeon, but of a very oily taste. March 15, we discovered th t Terra del Fuego. It appeared to us, at first, like a number of islands, but as we approached, we found it made but one land. On the land nearest us we saw a volcano, which, at times, threw out smoke, though, being day-light, we could not see the flame. All this land is low, and not to be seen, till you come within five or six leagues. In entering the Strait, the point of Terra del Fuego is very low, and a little within land, on the fame side, there are three mountains, which though not very high, are covered with snow. We law here several bays affording good shelter to shipping in cafe of need. We saw with our glasses, at the foot of one of these hills in a valley, several huts, and smoke coming from them. These we imagined, were either the habitation of Savages, or perhaps of Europeans, who had been shipwrecked in doubling Cape Horn. The other point at the entry of the Strait, on Staten-Land> is more elevated. This island is nothing but an assemblage of high rocks and mountains, with sharp, pointed summits. It lies from south-south-east to north-north-west, about twelve leagues quite desert, and covered entirely with snow. The weather being calm, we saw vast numbers of sea-wolves round our ship. These animals diverted
to MAGELLANIC A, &c. 6 7 t diverted us greatly by their leaping and playing in the 1747. water. We also saw many whales. '- We passed the strait in an hour and a half, having the wind fair, and we would have done it sooner, had it not been for the current setting strongly against us. Here our Captain made us keep as doss as possible to the Terra del Fuego, both because the winds here generally blow north-north-west, and also because the currents set strongly towards Staten- Land, which lay east of us. We had, from this time, variable winds, till we got into 57 degrees, south latitude. The sea went often very high, and there fell cold showers of rain. However we had no violent storm, even while we doubled Cape Horn ; so far from it, that March 226, being in the latitude of that Cape, that is, in 55 degrees, 38 minutes, we had a dead calm, so that, one of the officers having shot a sea-fowl, a water-dog jumped over board, and brought it to us. This fowl was of the size of a turkey; his wings extended five feet and an half, and his bill was hooked, like that of a parrot. On the 24th, our Capti'in ordered the course to be set north-west. This occasioned a general joy in all the ihip's company. Te Deum was lung. In fact, few journals cell us of a more happy passage than ours was. It is well known, how much this cape is dreaded by navigators, on account of the storms which are commonly met with here, and by which they are otten forced to return to Buenos .-tyres, after having long struggled against the north-west winds. We took but eight days to double the Cape from Le Mane's Straits, and but fifteen from that to Conception in Chili , where we learned the dreadful disaster that had happened to the cities of Lima and Callao , by an earthquake on the 28th of October. Callao was entirely swallowed up by the sea, and Lima made a heap of ruins. They begin now to rebuild that city, but take the precaution to make the houses of one story only. After our Captain had finished his commercial asfalts
6ji HEN ERIGNON, J74^-fairs in Peru and Chili , and embarked two millions and an half of piastres for Rio de Janeiro. We failed on our return to Europe -Gdfober 22, 1748. The north winds conducted us happily, in 13 days, to the latitude of Cape Horn , where we found the south-west winds. It was now the Spring in these climates. The air was cold, but not to a great degree. We had very little night, for the twilight did not end till midnight, and appeared again at one in the morning, and the moon shone bright. In fliort, we thought ourselves still in the Pacific Ocean : The air was temperate, and the sea quite calm. November 6, being in latitude of 57 degrees, 2 minutes, longitude, 307 degrees, 29 minutes, we fudged ourselves to be near Barnevelt 's Islands, but did not know whether we had passed betwixt the main land and them, or whether we had passed them to seaward. Having doubled the Cape, we stood northwest with so favourable a gale, that our ship sometimes made 63 leagues in 24 hours. Here I got a land-fowl, which came to rest itself on our gallery. It appeared to me to be a wild pigeon, resembling the pigeon in every respect; only his beak was larger, and the eyes smaller. We felt the cold very sensibly here, but it diminished every day, as we diminished our latitude. Under the tropic I caught a butterfly, and was surprised to think how one of that species could fly so far, we being then 40 leagues from any land. Hereabouts we found the lea covered with weeds resembling reeds, of a whitish red colour. Dec. 20, we cast anchor at Rio Janeiro , and I returned to St. Ma lo March 22, 1749. ARTICLE
COMMODORE BYRON, &c. ARTICLE XIV. COMMODORE BYRON, to Magellanica. Though no Account of Mr. Byron *s Voyage, properly authenticated, has as yet been published, and the Author, we insert this Extract from, has industriously concealed the situation of several of the islands, seen by them in the South Sea; yet, that nothing might be wanting, on our part, to complete the plan we proposed in this work, we here give so much of the Account we have seen of this Voyage, as more immediately relates to our subject. O N the 2 xst of December, 1764, we saw Cape Virgin Mary , from which we were five leagues distant, and also the land named Terra delFuego. We had very moderate and fair weather all the morning, and at three in the afternoon, Cape Virgin Mary bore north-west half north two or three leagues. About two leagues to the westward, a low neck of land runs off from the Cape ; we approached it within two leagues, without any danger, and at six anchored with the best bower in fifteen fathoms water, at which time tire Cape bore north-half-east seven miles. At three o'clock the next morning, we weighed, and making sail, at six the extremes of Terra del Fuego appeared, extending from the south-east by south, to the south west by south, at four or five leagues distance. At eight, we discovered a good deal of smoke issuing from different quarters, and, on our nearer approach, could plainly perceive a number of people on horseback. At ten, we anchored in fourteen fathoms on the north shore, and saw Cape Virgin Mary, which appeared over the low neck of land to the east- V01. 111 . 4 north-
674 COMMODORE BYRON, 1764. north-east, and Point Pojseffion to the west by south. We were then about a mile from the land, and no so oner came to an anchor, than the people on shore hallowed to us, and moved their hands ; on which we immediately hoisted out all our boats, which we manned and armed. On our first approaching the coast, evident signs of fear appeared among those in the boat, on seeing men of such enormous size, while some, perhaps to encourage the rest, observed, that those gigantic people were as much surprised at the sight os our muskets, as we were at seeing them, though it is highly probable they did not know their use, and had never heard the report of a gun. But this was sufficient to remind us, that our fire-arms gave us an advantage much stipe - riour to that derived from height of stature and personal strength. When we had rowed within twenty yard. of the ffiore, we lay on our oars, and observed, that great numbers os them surrounded the beach, and by sh ir countenances seemed eagerly desirous of having us land. After the most amicable signs which we were capable of understanding, or they of giving, a signal was made to them to retire backwards ; and then the Commodoie and chief officers entered upon a shore consultation on the propriety of landing. The first officer, fired with the thoughts of making a full discovery in regard to these Indians , who had been so much the subject of conversation among the Englijh , made a motion to approach nearer, and jump on shore;' but the Commodore, objected to it, and would not suffer any man to go before himself. As soon as the Indians had retreated from the beach, which they had surrounded in such a manner, as to prevent any person's landing, the Commodore with great intrepidity leaped on shore, followed by his officers and men, whom he drew up in a posture of defence. Immediately on our landing, they came about us to the number of two hundred or more, looking at us with evident marks ,of surprize, and smiling, as it should
to MA GEL LA NIC A, &c. 675 flioulci seem, at the great disproportion of our sta-17^4* ture After many amicable signs, which appeared equally agreeable to both parties, our Commodore, who nad the precaution to take with him on ihore a great number of trink-.ts, such as strings of beads, ribbons, and the like, in order to convince them of our amicable disposition, distributed them with great freedom, giving to each of them some, as far as they went. The method he made use of to facilitate the distribution of them, was by making the Indians sit down on the ground, that he might put the strings of beads, &c. round their necks; and such was their extraordinary sizthat in this'situation, they were almost as high as the Commodore when standing. They were now so delighted with the different trinkets, which they had an opportunity of viewing, as they hung round their necks, and fell down before on their bosoms, that the Commodore could scarcely restrain them from caressing him, particularly the women, whose large and masculine features corresponded with the enormous size of their bodies. Their middle stature seemed to be about eight feet; their extreme nine and upwards; though we did not measure them by any standard, and had reason to believe them rather more than less. Their cloathing consisted of the skins of guanacoes, er Peruvian sheep, which reached from their stioulders down to their knees ; and their hair was long and black, hanging down behind. The faces of the women were painted most extravagantly, and their stature equally surprising with that of the men. We law some ot their infants in their mothers arms, whose features, considering their age, bore the fame proportion. Some of their women had collars on their necks, and bracelets on their arms; but from whence they could procure them was a subject of wonder, as, from their great amazement at first seeing us, we conjectured, that they had never beheld any civilized beings before. It may, 4 2 however,
& 7 6 COMMODORE BYRON, 1764. however, be concluded from the accounts of Sir Jobil Narborough , and others, who have taken notice of these Indians , that they doubtless change their situation with the fun, spending the summer here, and in winter removing farther to the north, in order to enjoy the benefit of a milder climate. Hence Sir John and others have related, that they saw men of an uncommon size, at least eight or ten degrees more to the northward ; whence it may reasonably be conjectured, that during one part of the year, they may have some intercourse with the Indians , who border on some of the Spanijb settlements, and that from them they might have purchased these ornaments. Their language appeared to us to be nothing more than a confused jargon, without any mixture of the Spanijb or Portuguese , the only European tongues of which it was possible for them to obtain any knowledge ; and with which it is probable it would have been mixed, had they any immediate intercourse with the Spaniards or Portuguese of South America. These people frequently looked towards the fun with an air of adoration, and made motions with their fingers, in order to make us sensible of any particular circumstance they wanted us to understand. They appeared to be of an amiable and friendly disposition, and seemed to live in great unanimity amongst themselves. After we had been with them a short time, they made signs for us to go with them to the smoke which we saw at a distance, and at the same time pointed to their mouths, as if they intended to give us some refreshment: but their number being at present greatly superiour to ours, and it being not improbable, that still greater multitudes might come upon us unawares from the inland country, our Commodore, who was equally remarkable for his prudence and his bravery, thought it not. adviseable to venture any farther from the water-side. By the observations we made from the mast-head, when we were at about three or four miles djstance r and from the smoke we saw rising from different quarters.
to MAGELLANICA, &c. 677 tersj these Patagonians seemed to have no huts to fe- 1764. cure them from the weather; but to be entirely expos- ed, without so much as a tree of a moderate growth to shelter them. Indeed the soil is in general sandy, and the hills, which are Very high, are interspersed with valleys, that to all appearance are barren, for we here found neither water nor trees, but only a few shrubs. We ought not to omit, that the greatest part of those who surrounded us on the shore, were, before our landing, on horseback; but, on seeing us make up to them, they dismounted, and left their horses at some distance. These horses seemed to be about sixteen hands high, and very swift; but bore no proportion to the size of their riders, and seemed to be but' in a poor condition. At length, after making signs that we would depart, with the most plausible promises, by our gestures, of returning to them again from the ship, we left these Patagonian Indians , who were so distressed and afflicted at our leaving them, that we heard their cries for a considerable time after *. We * The following accounts given us of these extraordinary people, we insert as io many evidences in corroboration of what our author has asserted. His veracity, indeed, requires no aid among those who have the pleasure of his acquaintance. A gentleman, who was an officer in one of the ships, and on shore at the same time with our author, has given us the following account. " The Dolphin having entered iv or 12 leagues into the mouth of the Straits of Magellan, the men on deck observed thirty or forty people of an extraordinary stature, standing on the beach of the continent, who, looking attentively at them, made friendly signs, by which they seemed to invite them to come on snore 5 while others, who stood aloft, discovered with their glafies a much greater number, about a mile farther up the country ; but ascribed their apparent size to the fogginess of the air. The ship happening at this instant to be becalmed, the Hon. Mr. Byron , thinking no time would be lost by going on shore, resolved to land, in order to fee these Indians, and learn what he could of their manners ; he therefore ordered a six-oared boat for himself and offi- "ers ; and one of twelve oars to be filled with men and arms, as a security,
678 COMMODORE BYRON, 1764. We weighed and set sail at three in the afternoon, and at eight anchored in twenty-five fathoms water, at the distance of three miles north-north-east from Port Pofjcjsior., in view of two remarkable hummocks, which are distinguished by the name of the Ajs's Ears. At security, in case there should be any attempt to surprise or injure him, or any of those who went with him; though the people 01a shore did not seem to have any thing like an offensive weapon among them. " On the Commodore's landing, in company with his lieutenant, he made signs to the Indians , who were crouding round him, to retire, which they very readily did, to the distance of 30 or 40 yards. He then, attended by his lieutenant, advanced towards them about 2s yards; and their number was soon increased to upwards of so© men, women, and children. Several civilities at this time passed on both sides, the Indians expressing their joy and satisfaction, by singing uncouth songs, shaking hands, and fitting with looks of pleasure, with their wives and children round the Commodore, who distributed among them ribbons and strings of beads, with which they appeared extremely delighted. He tied necklaces round the necks of several of the women, who seemed to be from seven and a half to eight feet high; but the men were for the most part about nine feet in height, and some more. The Commodore himself measures full six feet, and though he stood on tip-toe, he could but just reach the crown of one of the Indians heads, who was not, by far, the tallest among them. The men are well made, broad set, and of prodigious strength. Both sexes are of a copper-colour ; they have long black hair, and were clothed with skins, which were fastened about their necks by a thong; the (kins worn by the men being loose; but the women's girt close with a kind of belt. Many os the men and women rode on horses, which were about fifteen hands and a half high, all of them astride ; aud they had among them some dogs which had a picked snout like a fox, and were nearly of the size of a middling pointer. " These friendly people invited the Commodore, and all those who were landed, to go with them up the country, shewing a distant smoke, and pointing to their mouths, as if they intended to give us a repast ; and, in return, the Commodore invited the Indians to come on board, by pointing to his ship but neither -> of them accepted of the other's invitation; and therefore having passed two hours in an agreeable conversation, carried on wholly by signs, they parted with all the marks of friendship. " The country all around is sandy; but diversified with small hills, covered with a ihort coarse grass, and with shrubs, none of-' ■which.
to MAGELLANICA, &c. 679 At three in the morning, we weighed, and failed 1764. with the wind at east, steering south-west by ion th two vW leagues, when the water Ihoaled to six fathoms and au half, we being then full three leagues distance from the shore ; but, in two or three casts of the log-linc, it deepened to thirteen fathoms. After which we steered south-west by south, two leagues to the entrance of the first narrow, as it is usually called. This narrow is about three miles over, and is the narrowest part of the Straits: Through it a regular tide runs with great rapidity. which, as Sir John Narlorough has long before remarked, is large enough to make the helve of a hatchet." Another gentleman on board has given an account that exactly tallies with the above, with these additional circumstances. That when they were 10 or 12 leagues within the Straits, they saw through their glasses many people on shore of a prodigious size : Which extraordinary magnitude they thought to be a deception, occasioned by the haziness of the air, it being then somewhat foggy*, but, on coming near the land, they appeared of still greater bulk, and made amicable signs to our people to come on shore. That when the sttip failed on to find a proper place of landing, they made lamentations, as if they were afraid our people were going off, and would not land. He also says, there were near 400 of them, and about one zd of the men on horses not much larger than ours; and that they rode with their knees up to the horse's withers, having no stirrups. That there were women, and many children, whom some of our people took in their arms and kissed, which the Indians beheld wich much seeming satisfaction. That by way of affection and esteem, they took his hand between theirs, and patted it; and that some of those he saw, were ten feet high, well-proportioned and well-featured ; their skins were ot a warm copper-colour, and they had neither offensive nor defensive •weapons. He also fays, that they seemed particularly pleased with Lieutenant Cummins, on account of his stature, he being six feet two inches high, and that some of them patted him on the shoulder, but their hands fell with such force, that it affected his whole frame. In fine, another officer of the squadron, who communicated an account of these extraordinary people to the Royal Society, in a paper which that learned body has reserved for publication, gives the fame account, with these additional circumstances: That they all appeared to be very sagacious, easily understood the signals or intimations which our people made to them, and behaved with great complacency and good nature. The
6?o COMMODORE BYRON, 1764. The land is on each side surrounded with hills, and is a country entirely barren, without the appearance of a single tree: yet we here saw great quantities of smoke rising from different parts of the shore, and a number of Indians employed around it. The course from the first narrow to the sound is south-west by west, about eight leagues. The land on each side is of a moderate height, and rather highest on the north shore, but runs low towards the second narrow. On sounding from the first narrow to the second, we found from twenty to twenty-five fathoms, with good anchorage and it was there about seven leagues from the north shore to the island of Terra del b'uego. At the entrance, Or east end of the second narrow, lies Cape Gregory , which is a white cliff of a moderate height, and a little to the northward of it is a sandy bay, in which you may ride in eight fathoms water, with very good anchorage. On being a-breast of Cape Gregory , we steered south-west half-west, five leagues thro' the second narrow, having a depth of water from twenty to twenty-five fathoms, and afterwards steered three leagues south for Elizabeth 's Island. At the west end of the second narrow on the south shore, is a white headland, called Sweepstakes Foreland. It must be observed, that in steering from Point Pojsejston to the first narrow, we found the flood set to the southward, and ebb to the north-west-, but, in pasting through the first narrow, the flood set strong over to the north store. When on the shoal of six fathoms and an half, the Jst's Ears bore north-west by west-haif-north, three leagues; and the north point of the first narrow five or six miles, Between the first and second narrows the flood sets to to the south-west, and the ebb to the north-east ; but being past the second narrow, the course with a leading wind is south by east three leagues between St. Bartholomew's and Elizabeth's islands, where the channel is one mile and a half over. The flood sets through to the southward with great vehemence and rapidity, so
681 to MAGELLANIC A, etc. that when near, it appears like breakers, and the tide I 7 (5 4 . round the islands sets different ways. On the 23d, we had very moderate hazy weather, With intervals of fresh breezes, and at three in the afternoon, we anchored in Elizabeth's road, Sweepstakes Foreland bearing north-east three leagues, St. Barthole- mew's Istand east-fouth-ealf, and the extreme of Elizabeth's Island south south-east one mile. The next morning, we sent the boat to found between Elizabeth's and St. Bartholemew'% Islands, and found it a very good channel, with very deep water. On this occasion we saw a number of Indians , that hallowed to us from Elizabeth's Istand. Both the men and women were of the middle size, well-made, and with smooth black hair : They appear to be of an olive-co- loured complexion, but rendered more red than they are naturally, by rubbing a red earth mixed with grease all over their bodies. They are very acs ive and swift of foot. Their cloathing consists of the skins of seals, otters, and guanacoes, sewed together in a piece about four feet square, and wrapped round their bodies. They have likewise a cap made of the skins of fowls with the feathers on, and on their feet pieces of skin to answer the purpose of slices : besides, some of the women have a piece of skin fastened round their waist. The women however had no caps, and were also distinguished by wearing a kind of necklace formed of shells. Yet several of the men had nothing wrapped round their bodies, but appeared entirely naked. At eight, we weighed with the wind at fouth-fouth- east, and worked between the islands, and, at ten, St. George's Istand bore north-east two leagues, without any sounding at thirty-two fathoms water. We observed, that the course from St. Barthcler,uw's, to the place where we now cast anchor, is south-fouth-west. The same weather continued on the twenty-fourth, and, at six in the afternoon, the signal being made, we weighed, steering five miles along the shore. At about one mile distance, we found very regular sound- Vom III. 4 R - ings,
682 COMMODORE B Y R O N, > 7 ( '4-ings, between seven and twelve fathoms water, with w '*' good anchorage ; and at ten o'clock anchored in thirteen fathoms in Sandy Point, south by east three or four miles. This is a low and very sandy (lip of land that runs level with the surface of the water. Along thd side of the shore is a great quantity of fire-wood, and many rivulets that flow from the mountains. It is ob- ferveable, that this is the first; part of the Straits, in which there was any appearance of a plantation of trees j all the preceding parts which we passed being entirely destitute of wood, and affording no other prospect but that of rocks and sand. With respect to its situation, it must be observed, that Perpus Point bears north- north-west three leagues,, and St. George's Island northeast four leagues. Along the side of the shore the flood sots to the southward, and flows at the full and change at ten o'clock. At eight the next morning, we weighed and worked two miles to the southward, when we cast anchor in Sandy Bay, in ten fathoms water, Sandy Point bearing south-east by east, one mile and an half, and St. George's Island north-north-east six leagues. T he fame day we lent the boat to throw the lean, and in three hours caught a great quantity of si so of an extraordinary size. In this bay is a rivulet of fresh water, but the shore being flat a sub half mile from it, makes it somewhat difficult to get at it. Ry a good observation, we found the latitude to be 53 degrees, j 5 minutes south. We weighed on the 26th at eight in the morning, with little wind, steering*-south by east along the side of the shore between, two and three miles, but had no sounding with a line of forty fathoms. In this part of tire year, every thing here is in the greatest perfection, with respect to the appearance of the trees, and the verdure of the lands, which in different places afford a most enchanting prospect; and many parts of the soore have pasture for the sheep or cows, which in such long voyages are generally on board. At this time of the year the fun is seventeen hours above the horizon, these places
to MAGELLANIC A, fcc. 68z places being situated nearly at the fame distance from * 7 r >4- the equator, as the middle part of Great Pritain, only w -' one to the south, and the other to the north. In failing toward the south pole, you find the fame alteration as in steering towards the north, till you run between sixty and seventy degrees, when the westerly winds generally prevailing in the Southern Ocean, and blowing very furiously in the months of April, May, June, July, August, and September, there is no probability of being able to fail round the Cape in thole months ; for which reason ships seldom attempt it, but in the proper season of the year. On the twenty-eighth, we had but little wind, it being almost a calm, we therefore cast anchor at three in the afternoon in eighteen fathoms water, Sandy Point bearing north north-west three leagues, and the south point of Frejh-fF'ater Bay , south-south-east half-east, two miles. At six we weighed, and at eleven anchored in thirty-two fathoms, Sandy Point being north- north by west half-west, four or five leagues, and on failing two miles from the shore, found no founding with fifty fathoms of line. she tide here runs very stow, but riles considerably by the shore, where we observed it to slow sixteen feet. The land here is diversified with woods, and abounds with water : in some parts it rises very high, and is in many places covered with perpetual snow. At eight the next morning, we weighed, and steered to the south-south-east for Port Famine , and at noon St. Ann's Point bore south by east half-east three leagues. About four or five miles to the northward of St. Ann's Point, which is the most northern point of Port Famine , a reef of rocks runs off about two miles from the inore, stretching south-east by cast from the Point: but, oit coming near it, the water sooals by degrees. The courle from Sandy Point to St. Ann's is south-south-east twelve leagues, about the middle of which is Frcjh- IVater Bay. It must be observed, that St. Ann's Point is very steep, and no soundings can be found till you 4 R j come
6§4 COMMODORE BYRON, 1764.. come very near it. Those who intend to steer to Port Famine , ought to take great care in standing in, especially if they proceed so far to the southward as Sedger river; because about a mile from the shore, the water shoals at once from thirty fathoms to twenty-five, twelve, and about two cables length, and at low water has no more than nine feet. If you proceed close round St. Ann's Points you soon get soundings, but then you shoal them very fast, whence it is attended with great danger to approach nearer than seven or eight fathoms, where good anchorage is to be found. The inner part of the Bay is very flat, and the Straits are here narrow, they not being above four leagues over. In this part of Port Famine may be found a considerable quantity of excellent wood, either green or dry, the latter lying along the shore on both sides the Straits, which are almost covered with the trees, that, having grown on the banks, have been blown down by the high winds. These trees are somewhat like our birch, but are of so considerable a size, that the trunks of some of them are two feet and a half in diameter, and sixty feet in length. Many of these we cut down for our carpenter's use, and found that, when properly dried, they were very serviceable, though not fit for masts. The fame weather continuing as before, we anchor^ ed in the Bay at five in the afternoon in seven fathoms water, muddy ground : When brought up, St. Ann's Point bore east by north one mile : The entrance of the river Sedger , we found to lie two miles and a half to the south three quarters west, and'a point running out at a distance, which is the southermost point of the continent of America , bearing south by east, three leagues and a half. Besides these, on the side of Terra del Fuego is Snczu-FlillPoint, whhh lies five leagues to the south-fouth-east, while the bottom of the Bay of Port Famine is a mile and a half to the west. During our stay here, our men were employed on shore in wooding and watering in the river Sedger , which
to MAGELLANIC A, <*. 685 which discharges itself into the Bay. This river is 1764. about half a cable's length broad at the entrance, and' - "*''' is just navigable for boats. In going into it, we met with two flats, one on the larboard-lide, and the other on the starboard, which we discovered at half-ebb; thele render it somewhat difficult to go up the river, except after half flood, when it may be navigated with great pleasure, by keeping in the middle of the channel. About two miles up the river, it is not above thirty yards over, at which place we had the pleasure to find, on the starboard-lide, a fine gravelly steep beach, so that the boats had the convenience of coming along fide of it, in order to receive the water in casks, which we found, to our great satisfaction, to be excellent. This river has perhaps as beautiful an appearance as it is possible for the most luxuriant fancy to conceive. Its agreeable windings are happily diversified ; and on each side is a sine grove of stately trees, which on each fide hang their lofty heads over the river, and form a pleasing shade. To complete this delightful spot, the wild notes of different kinds of birds are heard on all sides, and the aromatic smell of the various forts of flowers, which are seen along its banks, seem to unite in gratifying the fenses of the enchanted stranger. Such are the charms which Nature has lavished on a spot, where a few Indians alone can behold its beauties, while they are probably insensible of those attracting scenes, which persons of the most improved taste might ■contemplate with no inconsiderable pleasure. Among the trees, are many whole trunks are forty inches in diameter, with large green leaves resembling those of opr bay-trees. The rind is grey on the out- siefb, and pretty thick. This is the true Winter's Bark, a name which it obtained from its being brought in the year 1567, from the Straits of Magellan , by Mr. IVilharr. Winter. This bark, on being taken off the tree and dried, turns to the colour of chocolate. It has an acrid, burning, pungent taste, and is esteemed an excellent remedy against the scurvy. The bark itself is
686 COMMODORE BYRON, 1764- extremely fragrant, and the tree, when standing, has V " V ' J a strong aromatic smell. We frequently made use of the bark on board our ship in pies, instead of spice, and, being steeped in water, it gives it a very agreeable flavour. These trees are likewise found in the woods, in many other places in the Straits, and also on the east and west coasts of Patagonia. The land in the woods in some places consists of gravel, in others of sand, and in others of a good brown earth but old fallen trees, and underwood, obstruct; the passage through them. These woods near the shore extend up the fides of very high hills; but the mountains farther within land rife much higher, and their barren ragged summits, covered with snow, are seen peeping over the hills next the shore. Indeed, the land on each fide the shore rises to a great height, particularly on the island of Terra del Fuego , on the south side the Straits, where there are high barren rocks covered with everlasting snow. These have a black dreary aspect, and must have a considerable influence on the air, which they render cold and moist. This evidently appeared even while we were there, though this was their midsummer, when every thing must naturally be in the highest perfection. For though the weather, when the iun shone out, was very warm, yet it was unsettled, and we had frequently heavy rain and thick fogs. During our stay at Port Famine *, our chief provision was fish, of which there was the greatest plenty, particularly of mullets and smelts, both of an uncommon size, which were caught in such numbers, as to supply our men three times a-week. We ought not to omit, that we here saw many Indian huts, built with * It cannot be improper to mention here, that this port obtained its name from a party of Spaniards, 'who had planted a colony on the shore; but, for want of a regular supply of provisions, were starved to death. There are still to be seen some remains of buildings, though they are now almost covered with earth. small
to MAG EL LAN I CA, &c. 687 small branches of trees, and covered with leaves and 1765. mud. We began the new year in Port Famine, where we enjoyed every blessing, which, after so long a voyage, we had reason to expect. We had fisti, wood, and water in abundance: Both our ship and the Tamer, were in good condition, and the success of our voyage, with the continued kindness and engaging behaviour of our Commodore, kept our men in great spirits. After completing our {hip for sailing, and providing every necessary we found wanting, we weighed on the fourth of January, 1765, and set sail from Port Famine, standing over to the Bland of Terra del Fuego, where we saw great quantities of smoke rising from different quarters, which we supposed co be raised by different parties of Indians. The next day at two in the afternoon, we proceeded to the eastward with a fine gale at south-west ; and, at four o'clock, came a-breast of St. George's IJland, and, at nine the same day, passed the east end ot the first narrow; but the tide of flood setting strong to the southward, drove the ship directly towards the south shore, which had like to have proved of fatal consequence to the ship ; for as we were close under a very high rocky cliff in fifty fathoms water, in cafe of a sudden squall of wind, we must all have been inevitably lost. However, we at length found a place, where we cast anchor, and rode in safety. The next day at one in the morning, we weighed, and had a pleasant breeze with the tide of ebb; but this breeze soon abating, the tide set the ship to the north-west; and at five, the ship took the ground on a bank of fifteen feet, which reduced us to no small extremity ; but fortunately, in about half an hour, Ihe swung by the force of the tide into deeper water. During this time, the slfs's Ears bore north-west five miles ; the entrance of the first narrow south-west four or five miles, and Point F^cj/ion north-east by north four leagues. We
L88 COMMODORE BYRON, 1765. We now got our boats out, and towed the ship into v ' v '"' the deepest water in the south channel; by which means we anchored in fourteen fathoms, the tide of flood making strong against us; and then being for the distance of half a mile round us encompassed with shoals, that had only eight feet water, we lent out our boat to found, in order to find a channel; and, after being disappointed more than once, we at seven weighed for the last time, and left the coast. On the eighth of January, we had strong gales from the westward, and in the forenoon a most violent squall of wind; which sprung our main-mast; but that was soon secured by our carpenters again fishing it, and securing it with ropes. No remarkable occurrence happened, till on Jan. 13, we espied land, which appeared to be a considerable number of islands, near each other, some of them seeming very low, and almost even with the surface of the water. The second day after, at three in the morning, we stood in towards the land, and hoisted out our boats to found. These were gone till noon, when they returned, with the agreeable news of their having found a fine convenient bay, entirely secure from the fury of the winds, with its entrance lying to the northward. The land is on each side very high, and the entrance, which is half a mile broad, not in the least dangerous, there being nothing to obstruct the passage, the depth being from seven to thirteen fathoms, with muddy ground. The Ibore of this bay is not encompassed by funk rocks or sands -, nor is there the least danger in approaching it. In pasting on the starboard-side, many fine small bays and harbours open to the view, and to the third of these, we gave the name of Port Egmont , in honour of the Right Hon. the Earl of Egmont, then first Lord of the Admiralty, under whose direction this voyage was originally undertaken. This harbour is so commodious, that it is proper to give a particular description of it. Port
to MAGE LLANIC A, &c. 689 Port Egmont is surrounded by a range of islands, 1765. perfectly disjoined, and each placed in a convenient and agreeable situation. There are three different passages into this port, one from the south-west, another from the north-east, and the third from the south-east; and this last we found capable of receiving a ship of the greatest burthen. This harbour is of such extent, as to be able to receive the whole royal navy of England, .which might lie here in the greatest security. As the adjacent country has all the requisites for a convenient settlement, it is probable, that was it added to the crown of Great Britain , it would in time become a most flourishing spot. There are here many cascades of water, which are so conveniently situated, that, by bringing casks along-side the shore, many of them may be filled at once. One inconvenience, however, attends this place, which is, that there are no trees; but this is of small consequence; for in the proper season of the year, young trees might easily be brought through the Straits of Magellan, to these islands, where there is no doubt but they would grow and prosper. Indeed, we were fully convinced, from our own experience, that they were fit for such plantations ; for, on our first arrival, we had sowed many feeds, such as those of turnips, radishes, lettuces, £ 3 c, and before we left the harbour, many of them began to spring up very fast, and we have since heard, that some persons, who arrived there after our departure, eat of those roots and salad. It must however be acknowledged, that the wheat which we also sowed there, being put into the ground at an improper season, tho' it sprang up, did not come to its proper perfection. This we knew from a person, who lately came from thence in one of his Majesty's ships of war. This paf- ture-ground is so rich, that the grafs rose as high as our breasts ; which rendered it very troublesome walking ; We however cut down great quantities of it, and dried it for the use of our sheep. Indeed it may be ftirly conjectured, that if the Vol. III. 48 counts
€ 9 o COMMODORE BYRON, 1765- country was properly examined, many valuable disco '■ nr0 veries might be made with respect to its vegetables and minerals : for upon a slight examination of the hills, we found a kind of iron-ore, and had some reason to, believe, that if a more exact scrutiny was made, other, ores might be found of greater value. On our first going on shore in the boats, the waterside was entirely covered on every side with different, kinds of fowl, of very beautiful colours, and so tame, that in less than half an hour, we knocked down as many as we could conveniently carry away in our boats; particularly white and painted geese, a great number of pengwins, cape-hens, and other fowl. Thole to which we gave the name of painted geese, were exactly of the size of ours, only of a different colour, having a ring of green feathers on the body, and spots on different parts, with yellow legs. A stranger would scarcely forbear smiling at seeing our snip, ac this ]uncture •, for'jnever was any poulterer's shop in Leadenball market so plentifully supplied with fowl, and the men in every part were busily employed in picking them. As by experience we found that they had a strong taste, from their feeding upon sea-weeds, small fish, and particularly limpits, of which there is great plenty as large as oysters we found out a netv method of dressing them, which rendered- even these fowls extremely palatable ; so that we had as much provisions, and that of the nicest sort, as we could desire. The method we pursued, was by cutting them into pieces over night, arid letting them ly in fait water til! the next day ; that after their being thus purged by lying in soak, we might, the next morning, with a sufficient quantity of flour, make them into pies. Besides these fowls, we met with a prodigious quantity of ducks, snipes, teal, plover, small birds, and fresii-water geese, which last, living entirely by the fresh ponds, have a most delicious taste, and are not inferiour to those we are accustomed to eat in England. These last are entirely white, except their Legs. We very
to MAGELLANIC A, &V. 691 very frequently sent two men in search of them, who 1765. Were sure co bring home half a dozen, if not more, W ' J which they found by their weight to be a sufficient load, as they were not a little encumbered by the height of the -Truss. We also found a great number of seals, some of them very large and several of our men were employed on shore, at a place we called Bubblers Bay , from the number of those creatures we killed for their oil; for when boiled, they produced a sufficient quantity of it for the snip's company to burn in lamps, while the men pre- ierved their skins for waistcoats, and various ether uses. We were not surprised at meeting with such quantities of seals, when we afterwards found that they had sometimes eighteen or more at a litter. On the north side of the harbour is the principal island. to which we chiefly went on shore, on account oi its situation, and the fine prospect it afforded from a prodigious high hill, which cannot be ascended without difficulty -, but on reaching to the top, the great fatigue of ascending it is fully recompensed, by the delightful view it commands of the ships at anchor, with every part of the harbour; of the three passages into Port Egmont , the sea which surrounds you on every side, and all the adjacent iflands, which are upwards of fifty small and great, all of which appeared covered with verdure. On the tvventy-third of January, the Commodore, with the Captains of the Dolphin and Earner, and the principal officers, went on shore to the above ifland, where th c Union Jack was erected on a high staff, and, ■being spread, the Commodore named the whole his Majesty's isles, which he claimed for the crown of 'Great Britain, his heirs and successors. The colours were no sooner spread, than a salute was fired from the ihip. They were very merry on the occasion, a large bowl of arrack-punch being carried on shore, out of which they drank, among several loyal toasts, success •to the discovery of so fine a harbour. This evening our 4 S 2 smith
692 COMMODORE BYRON, 1765. smirk came on board, he having been employed on w '- / lliore, in making and repairing iron-work for the use of the ship. After having compleated our watering, surveyed the harbour, and provided every thing necessary for our departure, we left Port Egmont, on Sunday the 27 th, and failed within fight of the land, naming the headlands, till we came to the fouth-eaft point 1 hese islands ly in the latitude of fifty-one degrees, twenty-two minutes south, and in sixty-six degrees, ten minutes west longitude. They extend upwards qf forty-two leagues from east to west, and about five or six from north to south. However, it must be remembered, that this may not be the exact breadth of them, as we failed only to the northward and eastward, and did not attempt to go west or south, for fear of the heavy gales which are so frequent in those seas. On the 26th of February, we weighed from Port Famine, leaving the storelhip to proceed for England, and setting fail, stood out of the Bay to the southward point; St. Ann's bearing north-west by north two leagues ; Point Shutup south by west two leagues, and Cape Forward north-west half-west three leagues. We now discovered the French ship lying at anchor in a small bay, six miles to the westward of Point Shutup, with her yards and top-masts struck. At eight we brought to, with the ship's head to the northward, and clofe-reefed the topsails, Cape Forward bearing north two miles. At four the next morning we failed, having first fens the boat to found close to Cape Forward , when there were found a hundred fathoms water, at half a cable's length from the rocks. At eleven, we worked to the windward between Cape Forward and Cape Holland; and, at half an hour past five, anchored in nine fathoms water, Cape Forward bearing east half-south, six miles-, and a small istand west by south half-south, one mile. The Straits are here four leagues broad ; the land on each' side rises in very high mountains, which are for
to MAGELLANICA, &c., 69Z the most part covered with snow. At six in the after- 1765. noon we weighed, standing to the westward. At eight Cape Forward bore east-north-east half-east, three leagues ; and Cape Holland west by north, two leagues. At ten Cape Holland bore east-north-east, two leagues, and Cape Caltant west half-north, seven leagues. On our being a-breast of Cape Forward , which is the southermost part of the continent of America , and in 54 degrees, 7 minutes south latitude, we met with excelsive strong gales from the west-north-west, which blew with such violence, that we were driven three leagues to the eastward, where we cast anchor on the top of a rock in thirteen fathoms and a half water, a cable length from the bay : but soon after we parted, or rather started our stream-anchor, and fell off the rock : It was very dark, and the ship still kept driving with a whole cable out, and was in the greatest danger of being lost ; however, at four in the morning, we let go both bowers in 17 fathoms water. The wind still continued to blow very hard, and the ship was so near the rocks, that the boats could but just keep clear of the surf of the Ihore. However, that Providence, which had hitherto attended us, still continued our friend, and preserved us from the threatened destruction ; for the next morning we hove in the cable of our stream-anchor; but found both the flukes of the anchor broke and it being by this means rendered useless, it was thrown over board. Soon after we weighed both our bowers, and unfurling our fails, we steered from the north shore, and were now attended with light gales and fair weather. In passing along the coast we saw a smoke, and soon after discovered a great number of Indians in detached parties, some of whom, on seeing us, put their canoes into the water, and made towards our ship. When they came within musket-lhot, they began a most hideous shouting, on which we hallowed to them, and waved our hands as a signal for them to come on board us, which, after many persuasive signs on our side, " they
694 COMMODORE BYRON, 1765. they did. On their first entering the strip, they surveyed it round with no small astonishment, as if they had never seen a vessel of the like kind before. These Indians were in general of a middling stature; and of a very brown complexion, with long black hair, that hung down on their shoulders. Their bodies were covered with the skin of some animal unknown to us; but some of them had not a sufficient quantity of it to cover their nakedness. We trafficked with these poof Indians , or father gave them abundance of things, and particularly cloaths, which they seemed to receive with great thankfulness ; they were also exceeding fond of the biscuit, which we distributed to them pretty freely though they appeared somewhat unwilling to part with any thing in return. Some of them had bows and arrows that were made of such hard wood, that it seemed almost impenetrable; and the bows were not only exceeding tough and smooth, but wrought with very curious workmanship -, as to the string, it was formed of a twisted gut. The arrows, which are about two feet long, were pointed with flint shaped like a harpoon, and cut with as great nicety, as if they had been soaped by the most exact lapidary; and at the other end a feather was fixed to direct its flight. They have also javelins. These people seem to be very poor and perfectly harmless, coming forth to their respective callings, as soon as the morning dawns, and when the fun sets, retiring to their different habitations. They live almost entirely on fish, and particularly on limpits and muscles, the latter of which they have in great plenty, and much larger than those we meet with in England. The boats used by these Indians , are but indifferently put together ; they are made chiefly of the bark of trees, and are just big enough to hold one family ; they are very light, and when they come on shore, they drawthem upon it, out of the reach of the tide, and seem very careful of preserving them. Some of these boats, however, show in their structure no little degree
TO MAGELLANIC A, &c. 695 of ingenuity. They are formed of three pieces, one at 1765. the bottom, which serves for the keel and part of the sides, and is fashioned both within and without by means of fire ; upon this are placed two upper pieces, one ob eAch fide, which are sewed together, and to the bottom part, like a seam sewed with a needle and thread. All their boats in general are very narrow, And each end formed alike, both sharp, and rising up A considerable height. These Indians are very dexterous in striking the si fit from their boats with their javelins, though they lie some feet under water. In these instances they seem to shew the utmost extent of their ingenuity; for we found them incapable of understanding things the most obvious to their senses. For instance, on their first coming on board, amongst the trinkets we presented them, were some knives and fcissars, and in giving them these, we tried to make them sensible of their use : but after our repeated endeavours, by shewing the manner of using them, they continued as insensible as at first, and could not learn to distinguish the blades from the handles. There are plenty of seals in this part of the Straits, but we did not meet with many fowl, which is doubtless owing to the intenscness of the cold nor did we find the woods infested by any kind of wild beasts. Or. failing to the westward we found an* irregular tide, which sometimes ran eighteen hours to the eastward, and but six to the westward ; at other times, when the westerly winds blow with any degree of strength, it would constantly run for several days to the east. At intervals we had hard gales of wind, and prodigious squalls from the high mountains, whose summits are covered with snow. The Straits are here four leagues over, and it is difficult to get any anchorage, on account of the unevenness and irregularity of the bottom, which in several places close to the snore has from 20 to 50 fathoms water, and in other parts po ground is to be found with a line of 150 fathoms. After; having been ten or twelve days driven back by the
696 COMMODORE BYRON, i 7 < 55 -the currents and winds, and after our having made many fruitless attempts, we beat round Cape Quad, and anchored in a small bay on the south shore. The next day we sent our boats in order to found to the westward, that they might find some little cove or creek " to anchor in. The Straits are here no more than three leagues over, and we had reason to think, that the snow never melts from the mountains; but there are the most beautiful cascades and cataracts that run from the hills, and cannot be viewed without delight. We here saw a great number of islands, and many Indians dispersed in several quarters, amongst whom we found a family which struck our attention. ' It was composed of a decrepid old man, his wife, two sons, and a daughter. The latter appeared to have tolerable features, and an Englijh face, which they seemed to be desirous of letting us know; they making a long harangue, not a syllable of which we understood, tho* we plainly perceived it was in relation to this woman, whose age did not exceed thirty, by their pointing first at her, and then at themselves. Various were the conjectures we formed in regard to this circumstance, tho' we generally agreed, that their signs plainly shewed that they offered her to us, as being of the fame country. They appeared in one instance, to be quite uncivilized, for when we came up to them, we found them eating raw fist. On the seventh of March, in the morning, we weighed, and failed from the south shore, among several islands, where our soundifSgs were very irregular: but soon after we came to an anchor in 26 fathoms, on the south shore, when we veered away to half a cable to 13 fathoms, and in some places to 30, 50, and 70 fathoms, opposite Cape Quad. We found here but few birds of any kind, and but a small quantity of muscles along the store ; and tho* we sent our boat into a bay to hale the sean, it returned without any success, no fist being to be found. However, in this part of the Straits, we found great quantities
to MAGELLANIC A, &c. 697 quantities of red berries, somewhat resembling our 065. cranberries, They are about the size of a hazle nut, Wv "' and are the chief provision of the Indians in these parts: upon these we fed, and they being wholesome and refreshing, were found of considerable service to the (hip's company, At seven in the forenoon we came to an anchor in a 'small bay on the north (hore, between Cape Monday and Cape Quad , when we moored our (hip with a small anchor. ' On the ninth of March we got under way, standing to the north-west with a pleasant breeze, at south by east ; but when a-breast of Cape Monday B.iy, the wind took us a-back, and continued from six o'clock in the afternoon till eight, at which time Cape Monday Bay bore east half-north six leagues. On the tenth at six in the morning, a violent storm of wind came on, which was very near proving of fatal consequence to us; for it was very thick rainy weather, and we suddenly discovered sunken rocks on our lee-bow, just appearing above the surface of the water, at about half a mile from us. We tacked immediately, and in half an hour it blew so hard, that we were obliged to bear up before the wind, and go in search of an harbour. However, soon after we came to an anchor in a bay, in 16 fathoms water, about two leagues to the eastward of Cape Monday Bay; but the anchor falling from the bank into 50 fathoms, the (hip almost drove on (bore, but happily the anchor closing with a rock, brought us up, and in the afternoon we weighed, and steered into a proper anchoring place, intirely surrounded with high precipices, where we lay not more than two cables length from the (bore. , On the 11 th of March, we had heavy squalls of wind, attended with much rain, at which time the Commodore, with a generosity which endeared him to the crew, distributed as much clot h among the sailors as would make all of them long waistcoats; a present highly acceptable at this season, and the more so, as Vol. III. 4 T the
, 6 g$ COMMODORE BYRON, 1765. the officers and men, on leaving England, from their expecting to fail directly to India, had provided no thick cloathing. And that no partiality might be Ihewn to those on board his own ship, he also ordered an equal distribution to be made among the men on board the Tamer. On the 12th, while we were employed in wooding and watering the staip, thcTamer's boat was sent to the westward, with an officer from both ships, to search for anchoring places. Those in the boat, during their absence, were benighted, and obliged by distress of weather to put into shore, and take shelter under a tent, the materials for which they had taken with them. After which, wandering about, they saw a.number of Indians, employed on the shore in cutting up a dead whale, which scented the place for some distance a- round, it being in a state of putrifaction. This we supposed they designed for their miserable food, as they cut it in large slices, and carried them away on their shoulders to another party at a distance, who were engaged round a fire. However, it is perhaps equally probable, that, like the Greenlanders, and other nations in our northern hemisphere, they might be employed in making oil for their lamps, against the approaching winter. The boat at length returned with the agreeable news of those on board having found leveral harbours to the 'westward; which the Commodore no sooner heard, than, in order to encourage the men in the discharge of their duty, he ordered a double allowance of brandy to be given to every one on board. On the 25th, we moored in IVafb-Pot Bay, where we met with frequent showers of rain and hail, with the air all the time excessively sharp. At nine the next morning, we unmoored, expecting to sail, but the wind blowing north-west in heavy squalls, prevented us. In this perplexing situation were we driven about from place to place, loling perhaps in four hours, what we had been lix days and nights in working to the westward
to MAGELLANIC A, &c.~ 699 ward-, for when the wind continues with such violence, '765. there is no regular tide ; but, on the contrary, a con- w '-' slant westerly current running two miles an hour. The wind, however, favoured us at last, or most probably we must have taken up our winter quarters in one of these coves. On the 21 st, we set fail, the wind veering from south-west by west, to north-north-west; we worked to windward with continual squalls, which, at intervals, obliged us to clue all our fails. In the mean while the Tamer, whom till this time we had never lost sight of, by a favourable breeze, got a few leagues to the westward, where she lay two days in good anchorage; but on the third joined us. Harrasied as we were by these continual disappointments, to add still more to our vexation and concern, we found our men began to be attacked by the scurvy, which had made its appearance on many of them ; however, by the assistance of the vegetables, and the extraordinary care of the Commodore, who caused portable soup to be served to the sick, and twice a week to the whole ship's company, on Fridays with pease, and on Mondays with oat-meal; and who, with the greatest humanity, never spared to distribute, from his own table, whatever might be of use for the recovery of those attacked by this dreadful disorder, it was prevented from raging with any great inveteracy. On the 22d, we weighed, working to windward between Cape Monday and Cape Us right, which are at a- bout five leagues distance from each other; during which time we found our jeb-boom sprung, and at five in the afternoon, were obliged to come to an anchor in a very good bay, which we found about one league to the eastward of Cape Upright'. Our men were immediately employed in getting in the decayed boom, and supplying its place with a new one. On the 24th, the boat was sent to the westward with the second lieutenant in search of an harbour, at which time we had continual rams, and cold unhealthy wea- 4 T 2 ther,
\ 7 00 COMMODORE B YR ONf, 1765. ther, with strong gales from the north-west; and at W ' J fix in the evening, the boat returnedwithout having- found any harbour. The next day, the boat was sent again with arms and a week's provisions, besides materials for building a tent, in cafe they slrould land, and find it necessary to make use of it. However, after a short time, the boat returned, the search being now attended with success; on hearing which, we soon weighed, and stood to the north-west, to windward of Cape M'-nday. The Straits are here four or five leagues over, and the mountains seem to be ten times as high as the masthead of our (hips; but not much covered with snow, or encompassed with trees. We continued under fail till the wind increasing, and ■& violent sea from the westward coming on, we were obliged to lie to, under our close reefed top-sails. At eleven at night, we made shift to fee the land on the north shore, at which we were extremely alarmed; when, to heighten the danger of our situation, the iky was dark and lowering, and the noise of the waves, which we plainly heard- dashing against the precipices, deemed to foretell the disaster which we thought ourselves near experiencing; but at the very instant, when we expected immediate death, by hoisting ourhead-iails, our Ihip in an instant veered round on the other tack, and left- the breakers on the weatherTquarters, on which we made fail with our head to the souihward. During the above critical situation, from which we had been so providentially delivered, the officers and men united in doing their utmost to extricate us from the impending danger, and, though in such alarming circumstances, behaved with that alacrity-and intrepidity, which so strongly characterises thole who compose our naval force, and who justly merit this transient testimony to their honour. We now made a signal for the Tamer to come up, we supposing her case equally desperate with our own. She loon, however, made to us, and, at our desire, sailed a-head, firing a gun,-and'shewing a light for ■ our
to MAGELLANIC A, &c. 701 our benefit, whenever she saw land : but we had the 1 7 ^ 5 - misfortune to find that, by the violence of the wind, our mizen-top-sail was split from the yard, and by that means rendered entirely useless. After bending a new one, and repairing the damage our ship had suffered, about five in the morning, the day, to oiir inexpressible joy, began to dawn upon us, as before that we did not know, but that land might be close under our lee. We therefore made a signal to the 'Tamer to come under our stern, which having done, she was directed to search out a harbour, or some convenient place to anchor in, and at seven we came to an anchor in Cape Monday Bay, about one mile to the eastward, with the small bower in 23 fathoms water, and veered out to a whole cable. The Hon. Mr. Byron, after attending to the necessary refreshment os his officers andmen, who had endured the greatest fatigues, thought proper to name the high land, which we had so miraculously escaped, Cape Providence. It rises to a very great height, and projects to the southward, lying about four or five from Cape Monday, but upon the opposite shore. On the 28th of March, we found our cables much damaged by the rocks, we therefore condemned the best bower-cable, and bending a new one, cut the old cable into junk. In the mean while the Tamer had parted from her anchor, and been driven from the bank; she, however, shortly after returned in safety. The next day, at seven in the morning, we weighed, and set sail, but at intervals were attended with hard squalls from the westward, with heavy rains, while we worked to windward between each shore. In the mean time the Tamer , steering by the south coast, ran a-ground, and made the signal of distress by filing a gun, and hoisting her ensign in the mizen-ssrouds, on which we immediately bore down to her assistance, came to an anchor, hoisted out our boats, and sent them with anchor-hawzers, with which they soon hove her off, and she came to anchor near us in Cape Monday Bay. On
702 1765. l^Y>J COMMODORE BYRON, ' On the 30th, we had, at intervals, prodigious squalls of wind from the westward, attended with rain ; and at two in the afternoon, the wind increasing, with a prodigious swell from the westward, finding the ship laboured much, we let go another anchor, and got down our lower yards. In short, we had an almost constant •continuance of bad weather till the sixth of April, at which time the wind began to change to soft and moderate gales. The Straits are in this part four or five leagues over, and seem to have little or no wood on the north shore. The mountains, which to appearance are inaccessible, are barren, distitute of trees and verdure, forming a dreary and dreadful prospect. On the above day we hove up our small bower, with an intention to weigh ; but the breeze which was easterly dying away, the boat was sent ashore for wood, and the men saw a number of Indians. Soon aster which the Commodore landing, made them a present of ribbons and bread, and they coming on board at four in the afternoon, he gave them several other things, with which they were highly pleased. The next morning at four o'clock, we unmoored, and got under sail, with the wind at east-south-east. At this fortunate change of the wind, joy appeared on every countenance, and never were people in more spirits than we were while it lasted. For six weeks we had been beating to windward, and had been many times driven back, and narrowly escaped the greatest dangers. But we now flattered ourselves, that we should shortly arrive in the Pacific Ocean, the ultimate end of our wishes : but at eleven in the morning, the wind ceasing, the current drove us two leagues, Cape Upright bearing south-east five leagues, on which we came to with the stream-anchor, in 1 jo fathoms water. At three in the afternoon, the boat, which had been sent out some time before, returned from the westward, having been to the southward of Cape Dejiada, on the south shore, and found many convenient places
To MAGELLANIC A, &c. 703 for anchorage ; but the people in the boat were much 1765- fatigued by their long and tedious rowing. At two the next morning, we weighed, and set sail with the wind at west by north, and at eleven came to an anchor in a very good bay, between Cape Upright and Cape Pillar , both which lie about west by north, and south by east, at 12 or i z leagues distance from each other. In this bay we found plenty of excellent fish, not much unlike otir trout, only of a more red cast. We here met with very good anchorage, entirely secure from any winds from the north-north-westto the south-east ; and here you may sail with equal safety and pleasure, having from 14 to 20 fathoms muddy ground. At about four in the afternoon, the wind came to the south east, which filled us with high satisfaction ; and we instantly weighed and steered from the Bay, in order to proceed to the westward, On standing out, we saw the Tamer at an anchor in Tuesday Bay, which lies on the south shore ; but the wind suddenly veering round from the south-south-east to the south-west, in a very heavy squall attended with rain, obliged us to carry fail to get to an anchor in that bay, and the night approaching fast, the Tamer kept burning false fires, to direct us into it; but in order to enter it, we were obliged to make several tacks under close-reefed topsails and stay-sails in very great disorder, having rocks on each side. However, we at last came to an anchor, with the small bower in twelve fathoms, muddy ground -, but the wind blew so strong, it was some time before we could get our fails handed. Tuesday Bay was by far the finest we saw in the Straits. It is capable of containing a great number of large ships, which may ride there in the greatest security, with good ground, at not more than twenty- five fathoms water, free from rocks and sands. Into this bay Sir John Narborough recommends all ships to anchor, that are bound to the westward; and indeed we here found no difficulty in being supplied with good wood and water, and with excellent fish in great quantises
a 765. titles. You meet here with many beautiful cascades of water, along the sides of the rocks, and with it the ships casks may be filled with the greatest convenience. At six in the mornirtg, we weighed from this fine bay, and failing to the west-north-west, pasted Cape Pillar on the south shore, with a fine gale from the south south-east, where the Straits are about nine leagues over. At ten in the morning, having now no occasion to be continually founding for fear of shoals and sunken rocks, we got our long boat, yaul, and six-oared cutter, under the half-deck, with the twelve-oared cutter under the booms ; and secured the hatches and bulk heads of the quarter-deck and forecastle. At four in the afternoon, we reached the extremity of the Straits, where the distance from Cap Vitlory , on the north shore, to Cstje Defiada , on the south, is twelve leagues, bearing from each other about north and south. The whole length of the Straits of Magellan , in whish we had been detained, chiefly by contrary winds, from the twenty-first of December to the ninth of April, is from Cape Virgin Mary to Cape Defiada, with every reach and turning, no more than abdut 116 leagues; and we had been six weeks and five days since bur leaving Port Famine , to our departure from Tuesday Bay, and the Straits of Magellan. We were now to leave the cold climate, and the tempestuous seas of so southern a latitude, just after the time of the autumnal equinox, with the dreadful hurricanes that most unavoidably attend the approach of winter, and joyfully steered to the northward, warm ed with the hopes of meeting with calmer seas, and milder climates. On our entering the Pacific Ocean, or South Sea, we found a great swell running from the sotuh-weltj but nothing worthy of observation happened till the 26th of April, when we saw the ifl.nd of Masa Fuero to the westward. The Commodore thought it more adviseable to touch at this istand than at Juan Fernandez-, it being rather more secure than the latter, from any
TO MAGELLANICA, £&. 705 any discoveries which the Spaniards might make of 1765. our designs ; in consequence of which our voyage, and all our farther discoveries, might have been prevented. On the first of May*, we weighed, and at six in the morning, set fail from Mafa-Fuen to the westward. We had now a continued series of fine weather, and yet found, that the nearer we approached the line, the scurvy raged among the men with the greater inveteracy. After a passage of thirty-fix days, the Tamer , on the 7th of June, at one in the morning, made the signal of feeing land, on which we brought to till day light, and in the mean while flattered ourselves with the pleasing hopes of getting some kind of refreshment, of which we stood in great need, especially for those who were sick; an expectation that appeared the more just, as we knew that the islands, which are situated within 20 degrees of the line, are frequently well stored with fruit of all kinds. Soon after day-break, we had the pleasure of seeing two islands, which, though low, and , small, afforded a most agreeable prospect, tfiey being' covered with beautiful trees, and on sailing to the leeward, we were regaled with the smell of the finest fruits. Among the rest, we saw -cocoa-trees, whole ' nuts hung in such clusters, that our joy, even in feeing them, was inconceivable to all but those who, having, by sad experience, known the want of those blessings, can feel more sensibly for the distresses of others in tsip lame situation : We also beheld numbers of Indians walking along the beach. This island lies in the latitude of * degrees nine minutes south, and in degrees 14 minutes west longitude from London.' It extends four leagues in length, and in the body of the island is a gooci deal of vv^ter, which appears to be * As the precise knowledge of tlie situation of these new-disco- vered islands can be ofservice only to the navigator,' we have, iij obedience to the government, and that the cneipies of our.country may not avail themselves of pur •discoveriesj omitted the dej grees of latitude .and longitude. .Vol. HI. 4 U walked
706 COMMODORE BYRON, 1765. washed over the banks, as some of them seemed to have been broken. Our boats, which had been sent to sound, at length returned; but, to our great disappointment, could find no proper place of anchorage. They indeed found one, but it would have been attended with too great danger to the ship, had she cast anchor there, it being in forty-five fathoms water, and only half a cable's length from the shore. Besides, the surf upon the store was so great, that from this circumstance alone, the ship would have been in great danger of being stranded. Thus flattered as we had been with the pleasing hopes of tasting those delicious fruits, which appeared so tempting to the view, were we cruelly disappointed. Though indeed other objections besides those just mentioned stood in our way : for the Indians had surrounded the store with staves and javelins sixteen feet long, with a piece of bone at the end, in the form of a harpoon, in their hands, hallowing and shouting in the most hideous manner, at the same time making signs with their hands for us to be gone -, always taking care, as the boat sailed along the store, to move in the same direction, and accompany it; and though the men saw some turtle at a distance, they could get at none, as those Indians still kept opposite to them. The Commodore, excited by his humanity, was very unwilling to suffer the men to sire upon these innocent men, merely on account of the natural defence which they made against our supposed encroachments on their territoiies, and therefore thought it most adviseable to steer to the adjacent island. These Indians were of a very black complexion, with well-proportioned limbs, and appeared to be extremely active and full of vigour, Their women, who were only to be distinguished by their bosoms, had something twisted round' their waist, and hanging down from thence to hide what nature taught them to conceal ; as had also the men, and this was their only cioathing. They all together amounted to about fifty in number, including the children ; and to the south - ■ . • . west
to MAGEL'LANICA, &c. 707 west we could perceive their huts, under the shade of 1765^ the most lovely grove we ever saw, e-w The next day, at six in the morning, We worked under the lee of the other island, which lay to the westward of the former, and sent out our cutter to sound for a place to anchor in. But here, to our great disappointment, we law a much greater number of Indians surrounding the shore, who with spears of equal length followed us in the same manner, several hundreds of them running along the coast in great disorder; and, at the same time, we beheld the island covered with a prodigious number of cocoa-nut, plantain, and tamarind trees. Having waited some time with great impatience for the return of the cutter, we fired a gun, as a signal for our men to come on board, which terribly alarmed the Indians , who seemed to consult among themselves, what measures it would be most proper for them to take. They had many canoes, which, on our approaching the shore, they dragged into the woods, and at the same time, the women came with great stones in their hands, to assist the men in pfeventing our landing: but the cutter now soon returned, bringing much the same account of this as of the other island, there being no sounding at a cable's length from the shore, with a line of 100 rathoms. This gave us the greater concern, as we had now thirty sick on board, to whom the land-air, the fruit and vegetables, that appeared so beautiful and attractive, would doubtless have afforded immediate reins. We therefore, with longing eyes, left these delightful islands, to which we gave the n- ">e of the Islands of Disappointment) and continuing ou; course, on the 1 ith of June, at fix o'clock in the afternoon, the Tamer made the signal for seeing land, on which we lay to all night, and the next morning, running along the shore to find a place to anchor in, we stood in to a bay, with an intent to come co; but there being no soundings at a greater distance than half a cable's length from the shore, the Commodore would, notven- 4 U 2 ture
-68 COMMODORE BYRON,. 1765. tyre to .cast. anchor, but mude sail again to the west- ward ; however, the boats going again-to sound, saw two canoes following, them, on which the Commodore made the signal for che boats to give chace; but at one in the afternoon, the canoes took. to the shore, and the men with the sticks and staves defended the beach, till our boats were in their own .defence obliged to fire, by which several of them were killed, or at least wounded, and carried away by their companions into the a woods, When the boats returning on board, brought the two canoes with them, one of which was 31 feet in length* and the other only fourteen. After dispersing these Indians , we went on shore to procure force refreshments* when we saw many of their huts, which are in general built very low, with a top like the roof of a house covered with matting. They had not forgotten in these fright to take all their working tools with them, by which means we were deprived of the pleasure of knowing in what manner they formed their canoes, thqughwe saw several that were building and not yet finished. We here gathered a great slumber of cocoa-nuts, which seem to be the principal produce of the,island, and among the rest a large quantity of fcurvy-grafs, and other vegetables, for the use of our lick. For, as the ship could not cast anchor, the sick were not sent ashore.. This island lies about sixty-seven leaeues to the west south-west, half-south of the island last-men-tioned, in the latitude of , degrees, fourteen minutes south, and in west longitude from Lcndon-. degrees, ten minutes 5, and is all round next the sea covered with very beautiful red and white coral, with a great quantity of pearls, and a multitude of fine shells; hence' we gave it the name of Coral 1 stand. It is about ten or eleven leagues in length, and near three in breadth j but there is very little fresh water to be found near the shore : we law only one spring just sufficient for the use of a small number of the inhabitants-, and it appeared that they were accustomed to fetch their water front this
to MAG EL LAN I CA, &c. 705 this spring, and to deposit in a cavity dug at the foot 1765- of a tree, in order to supply their present occasions. W ' J There is, however, a lake in the middle of the .island, •where the Indians catch turtle, and we saw a great number of their shells, which they use in narrow flips along the seams of their canoes instead of caulking. ,\Ve found great quantities of fish hanging on the limbs of trees to dry, which they catch with pearl-hooks, and strong lines made of silk-grass. These people seem to have some notions of religion, as we saw a place, which we concluded to be appropriated to their worship. A rude but very agreeable avenue opened to a spacious area, in which was one of the largest and most spreading cocoas we saw in the place, before which were several large stones, which were probably altars, and from the tree hung the figure of a dog adorned with feathers. These people seem to have a notion of keeping above ground the bodies of their dead; for behind these stones, and a little towards the eastward, was a wooden box, in which we found the skeleton of a human being, who appeared to have been of an enormous size. Still steering to the westward, we saw another island, which was situated in the fame latitude, and in degrees, twenty minutes, west longitude. We sent our boats to find an anchoring place, and they no sooner approached the shore, than a great number of Indians coming to the boats, the men on board them distributed a few trinkets among them, with which they seemed highly pleased, and by their antic gestures, expressed their satisfaction. Encouraged by the simplicity and friendly behaviour of these inoffensive people, the men ventured on shore; on which the Indians slocked round them singing and dancing, as if to express their joy. To this island, which is about seven leagues in length from the south-west to the north-east, and about three in breadth, we gave the name of King George's, Island. A lake in the middle of it is of such extent, that the land around it is in some places very narrow . but
,7io COMMODORE BYRON, i?6;. but it did not seem to have so great a number of co- coa-trees growing upon it as the other islands we had lately seen. Or. our proceeding to the southward, we saw another island, which we called the Prince of Wales'^ and immediately haled to. It has a narrow neck of land, about five leagues in length, running south by west and north by east. We here also saw a great number of Indians , with several canoes dispersed on different parts of the shore. This island is situated in degrees, two minutes south latitude, and in degrees west longitude from London. On the 2J st of June, at seven in the morning, we again saw land a-head, which, on our nearer approach, we found to be a single island about four leagues in length, surrounded with shoals and breakers, whence we termed it the Island of Danger. It is situated in degrees, 30 minutes latitude, and in degrees, ten minutes longitude. At the distance we were from it, it appeared very fruitful, and abounded with cocoa-trees, which were plainly visible. This island is so divided by the water that flows over the banks, as at some distance to appear like three islands. As you run in with the land, you see the sands, and at about seven leagues distance from the most eastern parts of the island lies a shoal of rocks, near a quarter of a mile in length, and when a-breast of these rocks, the island bears west by north. Still proceeding in our course to the westward, we had on 23d excessive hard showers ot rain, on which we seized this opportunity of filling our casks with a fresh supply of water. This is performed aboard a ihip by extending large pieces of canvas in an horizontal position, bringing them by the corners, and placing a cannon-ball, or any thing heavy in the centre ; by which means the rain running trickling to the middle, pours in a stream into the cafes placed under. In this manner the Manilla iliips, during the long passages they make through the South Seas, recruit their water, from
7 II TO M A G E L L A N I C A, &c. from the great showers of rain, which at this season of 1765. the year fall in these latitudes, for which purpose they w ° always carry a great number of earthen jars with them. The next day we had moderate fair weather, and at about ten in the morning, saw another island, with a prodigious number of different kinds of birds upon it. On which we stood in for the land, and hoisted out our boats to find an anchoring place. This island lies in the latitude of degrees, 33 minutes south, and in degrees, 16 minutes west longitude; it is about four leagues in length from east to west, and nearly as much in breadth. There is also a lake in the middle of the island ; and the sea in some particular places sometimes overflows the banks. The land is in general very low-, thpough when you first make it, some parts of it appear quite the contrary : for it has rising grounds covered with fine lofty trees ; while most of the other parts are low, and have a sandy disagreeable foil. Our boats at length returned with the unfavourable news of their having found no good place to anchor in. However, we dispatched them a second time to procure some rtfresoment from this island, which we named the Duke of York , and at six in the afternoon, they returned with a great quantity of cocoa-nuts which appeared to be the only fruit this island produces ; at least it is the only fruit they were able to find. It is remarkable, that we could not here observe the least sign of any inhabitants -, and we supposed it was never seen by any one before. On the 28th of June, we had fresh breezes, with heavy squalls of rain, and now giving up all hopes of seeing Solomon 's Islands *, which we had expected to visit; f The islands of Solomon arc said to have been discovered bv Ferdinand de khtiros, who represented them as exceeding rich and populous ; and several Spaniards, who have pretended that they were driven thither by Krct> os weather, have laid that the natives, with respect to then- persons and behaviour, were much like those of the continent os America, and that they had ornaments' of
7 x 2 COMMODORE BYRON, ^7^5-visit i and should certainly have found had there been any such islands, in the latitude in which they are placed in our maps, we altered our course to the north-north-west, with the Tamer in company, during the whole time : our people being frequently employ<• ed in catching rain-water; we having been now upwards of four months with only a quart of water a day for each man. On the fourth of July, the Tamer making the fignal for seeing land, we stood towards it, and found an island in degrees, thirteen minutes, south latitude, and in west longitude, degrees, forty minutes; and it being never before discovered, we gave it the name of By*on Island. It is near four leagues from the northwest to the south-east, and being covered with a great number of trees, appears very fruitful. To the southwest of the island you may anchor from ten fathoms water to thirty-seven, in a coral bottom, half a mile fVprn the Ifiare, where there is little or no surf. At ten in the morning, we sent our boat armed on shore, at which time we saw a multitude of inhabitants, provided with a kind of proas or Indian boats, scattered on different parts of the shore. On our boats approaching the land, the Indians came alongside them, and trafficked with our men, who gave them several trinkets to exchange for their fruit, apd other things; and they seemed to be highly delighted both with what they re T reived, and the courteous behaviour of the sailors. Their boats are small, and covered with leaves of trees sewed together; some of them carrying four people, and others only two. These have some resemblance to the proas used by the Indians of the Ladrone Islands, tfiey having yvhat is termed an outrigger, that is, a frame laid out to the windward, to balance tffis little of gold and silver; but though the Spaniards have at different times sent several persons in search of these islands, it was always without success: which must probably proceed either from the uncertainty of the latitude in which they aye said to be found; or tpe whole being a. fiction. yessel,
to MAGELLANIC A, 8rc. 713 vessel, and prevent its oversetting, which would other- >765, 'wise infallibly happen, from its small breadth in pro- portion to its length. These Indians are of an olive colour, and have fine long black hair, and their teeth are remarkably white. They are well made, and have strait limbs, and great activity. The men were entirely naked, and though we saw upwards of a hundred of them in their proas, there was but one woman among them, and of her they seemed to take great notice: She was distinguished by wearing something about her waist. While the proas were round the strip, one of the Indians came on board, and, by his manner of fitting on the deck, seemed to be more used to fitting than standing; for he instantly squatted down on his hams, and did not quit that posture till he jumped overboard. These Indians seem to have no notion even of those points, which, one would think, Nature must have informed them of, without the assistance of the laws formed by polite nations for the advantage of civil society; but it is probable, that they enjoy all things in a manner in •common amongst themselves, and thence have little idea of property with respect to others. Thus one of them came in his proa under the ship's stern, and jumped into our gun-room without being perceived by the men, whence he stole some little trifles, which he could conveniently carry away in his hands ; and another of them, who had trafficked with one of the men, after giving him strings of beads in exchange for the bread which he seemed desirous of having, watched his opportunity, and attempted to snatch them again out of his hand, taking to the water, to which they arc so habituated, that they will frequently stay a minute or more under it. On the eighth of July, three days after we left this istand, we made the signal to the 'Tamer of seeing land, and at eight in the morning ran in with it, when we saw three islands, which proved to be Tinian , Aguigan<, and Saypan but were obliged to stand off and on from Vol . *UI. 4 X the
7)4 COMMODORE BYRON, &c. 1765. the land all night. However, the next morning, w; came to anchor in the road of Tinian , in 18 fathoms water, in white sand intermixed with coral rock : one of our anchors lay to the westward, and the other to the eastward, and our cables were buoyed with casks, to keep them off the foul ground. We found fresh gales of wind from the north to the east, and when we moored, the tide was observed to run regularly from the extremes of the island, ebbing and flowing about eight or nine feet. Thus we arrived at this delightful island, aster a passage of four months and twenty days, from the Straits of Magellan through the Pacific Ocean with this surprising and happy circumstance, that during this long run, though many had great complaints of the scurvy, from the salt-provisions they had been obliged to live upon, yet through the care of the Commodore, in causing the people to be supplied at stated times with portable soup, and the refreshments we had obtained from several islands, we had not buried a single man ; and we had now, by being favoured with fair weather, an opportunity of sending our sick on shore, into the tents,, which some of our men had loon prepared for their reception. On the 2d of October, we failed from 7 ins an , steering our course for Batdvia -, where we arrived the 28th of November. After refitting the Dolphin , and taking in a sufficient stock of provisions, wood, water, &c, we failed, in company with our consort the Tamer, on the 9th of December, for the Cape of Good Hope-, at which place we arrived the 14th of February 1766: On die zd of March,we left the Cape^ steering directly homewards, and on the 9th of May arrived safe in the Dcti-ne having lost only six men during the whole voyage : The Tamer lost the same number of men. ADVA N-
ADVANTAGES From the forming of COLON IES IN THE TERRA AUSTRALIS. 4 BOOK V 05 the method of forming colonies in the TERRA AUSTRALIS, and the Advantages that may be expected to result to Great Britain from such Establishments in that Hemisphere. W E have now presented to our readers view, ail the navigations that have been made in the . r. - r ^ _ ___!_. h.ir j:r__ course of two centuries and a half, to discover the southern continent, and the adjacent islands : and we imagine, that the materials we have here collected, are nearly sufficient to give us a general notion of the position of the coasts, the climate, and aspect of the country, and the nature of that immense o- ccan which walhes its shores. It is now time to consider, by what methods these discoveries, thitherto vague and partial, may be rendered more regular and uniform, and in what manner we may best expect to open a communication with the interior parts of these extensive countries, or form e-stablisliments upon their 4X2 coasts.
ji6 Advantages front forming Colonies coasts. The journals we have perused, may help us to judge, and select a proper place for fixing a colony, according to the particular views that may be formed, or the advantages expected by such a measure. But to whatever part of these three great seas, our views may be directed, it is absolutely necessary to deliberate maturely before we fix the object, as well as to prosecute with constancy and resolution the plan that may be adopted, without being deterred by difficulties, always unadvoidable in undertakings of this fort; and not to abandon the design, till by a proper trial we fully succeed, or are made sure of the impracticability of the measure. We have already observed (Book I.), that the great southern continent may be commodiousty divided into three parts, to which we have given the names of Magellantca, Polynesia , and Australasia , with respect to its southern position to the continents o i America, Asa, and Africa , and that of the three seas, the Indian , Atlantic, and Pacific. For examining the properties of these three parts of the southern hemisphere, we shall find (as far as we can judge from the accounts we have been examining hitherto), that the lands in Magellani- ca lie most open to the general routs of our shipping ; that the goodness of the climates, and manners of the people in Polynesia , render the fixing of colonies here no difficult matter, notwithstanding its great distance ; and that in Australasia, the commerce bids fair to sourish; nor will establishments here be attended with the fame charge, as in the other division among the islands. Of all the parts of the Austral world, the track of land and lea that is intercepted betwixt the east entry of the .Straits of Magellan , and the Cape of Good Hope, is confessedly the least known. The lands lying 50 or 60 leagues from the'continent of America hereabouts, have been oiten seen, but rarely visited. Generally speaking, the ships have held their course through an open sea j a proof sufficient, that these lands are 0: on
in the Terra Axjstralis. 71 •/ no greatextent. In spite of this, there seems to be some reason for thinking, that there is a large track of , land lying more to the east. Perhaps the lands seen by Bouvet, and that mentioned by Gonneville , may be part of it. No body, as far as we know, has exami- ned this track, excepting Fesputio, Halley , and Boa- vet. The first and last saw indeed land thereabouts, but they did not go ashore, while Mr. Hallefs voyage was only made in the north sea and for this reason, vve have not given his journal a place in this collection, as not being immediately connected with our subject: It may, however, be proper to say something of it here. The design of his voyage, was to observe the declination of the needle, and, if pollible, to establish a theory in this important point to navigation. For this purpose he made, during the year 1700, a long circuit in the northern ocean, leaving Rio Janeiro , and soaping a southerly course. In this run, being in latitude 52 degrees, longitude 347 degrees from the jsle of Ferro , he met with ice in a part of the ocean hitherto unvisited by any other navigator. It lies further west than where Fesputio saw what he calls the Southern Continent , and to the 8. S. W. of the Terra del Viflo, seen by Bouvet. It seems very probable, that land lies not far from these islands of ice seen by Hat - ley, who from hence turned back towards the line ; made some further observations at St. Helena, whence he returned to Femambuco in Brafil. All we so all fay of Mr. Halley 's observations is, that he found four points in the north sea, where the needle showed no variations; and having determined these, he thought they might be comprehended under a line, suppoied to go round our globe, on the one side of which the oriental variation would be found, and the occidental on the opposite. Hence he deduces a general system of variation, by which he proposes to determine the gradations on both sides of the supposed fixed lmc, and thence, according to him, this difference of eastern or western variation, will help the navigator to ascertain the place of his soip. Nothing can be more ingenious
71 3 Advantages from forming Colonies genions than this system, and few more useful, provided repeated observations and experiments confirm the general, position on which it rests. It is true, Halley has given many experiments, which seem to agree with his theory, while those made by other mathematicians contradict it *. As for Fcfputio , he tells us, that all the coast he saw hereabouts was free and open, without ports or inhabit, ncs. It is impossible he could have taken the large pieces of ice for land, nor does he mention that he saw any ice; a circumstance so extraordinary, that he would not have omitted to mention it, even in the very succinct narrative he gives of his vogage, especially as he talks much of the excessive cold, and thick fogs he found in these seas. Hence Bouvet might have known, that the lands seen by him were indeed lands, and not a frozen ocean, as he seems to think them, not to mention what we have endeavoured to prove in our first book, that those islands of ice generally seem to indicate land as not lying far off. Be this it may, it is a doubt well worth the clearing up, and this can be done ata very trifling expence, as our India strips are commonly within ten or twelve degrees of this latitude, when they double the Cape in their way to th zEast-Indies. Without repeating what we elsewhere said, that the land may be approached here, by chusing the season proper for this navigation, the fame motives that determined the French to fend Bouvet here in 1739, still subsist, and the fame utility will be reaped from the discovery. We can say nothing of the products of a country that has never been explored. Most probably the foil, in this vigourous climate, is barren. But a foil may be barren, and yet make proper returns in commerce. Thus, in as severe climates lying northward, we find an advantageous traffic earned on by our Hudson-Eay Company. It may also be doubted, it * Vide Philos. Transact. Chart of the variations of the Needle, Memoirs of the Acad. of Sciences, 3111101710. any
in the Terra Austrai is,' 719. any inhabitants are to be found in those regions : but we have little reason to think these lands uninhabited, when we recollect, that people are found in Nova Zem- lla , Greenland , and even in the bottom of Baffin's bay. The journals we have here collected prove, that savages have been found as near to the south pole, as we have yet found land; and perhaps they are found even under the polar circle, to whpch latitude Drake seems to have penetrated. Many are the proofs that those regions, formerly deemed uninhabitable, both by the ancient and moderns, are really peopled more or leis ; and that nature has framed the constitutions of the inhabitants,, and also of the plants of these lands, in exact analogy to the temperature of the climate where she has placed them. Thus we fee the Patagonians of the Terra del Fuego going naked in the middle of winter, where even the cold in summer is almost intolerable to strangers. Our ancestors th 0Pills are said to have wandered almost naked through the marshes and forests of Caledonia , the climate of which was certainly more rigorous at that time than now, that the country is cleared and cultivated. The human frame, by custom, comes to be able to support extremes of climate hardly credible : Nay, it may be generally allowed, that animals sup-, port these better than vegetables, and that, of all animals, man suffers least by them. But, on the other hand, if the coasts, v/e have been speaking of, possess the advantage of lying at no great distance from the ordinary course of our trading ships, yet other disadvantages may render this discovery of little value. It is certain, that the approach to them is difficult, and can be made only at one season of the year. Perhaps it may be found (supposing these countries fully surveyed) impollibie to six icttied abodes here ; and hence.they would be found useless, as an intermediate station for traffic. Let us therefore consider, whether it would be more proper to turn our thoughts on some region nearer to the Straights of Ma- gellan ;
yZO Advantages from forming Colonies gellan ; su.ch as the Malouin isles, or chat called Pepys jiland. Theformer arc moil: probably those discovered first by Sir Richard Hawkins. He talks favourably of them, and his account is confirmed by that of Roggewein^ who fays they were 290 leagues in circuit. Pepys iile has the advantage of a milder climate ; a- 'bounds with wood, water, and fish, besides a noble haven, where a thousand fail may ride together. Besides these two places, we find other countries seen by Nodal , Linderman , La Roche , and others, of which we yet know nothing ; but, upon examination, may be found still more commodious for the purpose of fixing a colony, intended to facilitate the communication with the South Sea. To this, till our views should be directed, long experience shows us, ever since Drake showed the way, that it is here, and here only, we can effectually distress a nation, with whom the proximity of our settlements in America must give rife to many quarrels. We need scarcely observe again, that the discovery of theft regions would be attended with no great expence and our most expert geographers and mariners agree, that any nation possessed of a naval force, and master of a post so far advanced to the S south, would have the absolute dominion of the two seas in time of war. We mey refer our readers, on this head, to Lord Anfon's judicious remarks on the southern dimes. The countries lying near the Straights of Magellan are better known, and this canton of the southern world has been oftner, and more exactly visited, than any other hereabouts. The rigour of the climate, the strength and ferocity of its barbarous inhabitants, has discouraged our navigators from penetrating far into the inland ; and yet they all agree, that even among the horrid mountains that sill this wilderness, they have seen many spots clothed with verdure, abounding in trees, and watered by several fine rivers: That provisions, such as game, fish, fruits, and herbage, are not scarce.
721 in the Terra Australis. scarce : That a species of the spice-tree is found here, and also currants, gooseberries, and celery : That the grain and pot-herbs sowed here came up very well. Nay, we may suppose, that the colony of Spaniards settled on the best part of the Straight by Sarmiento , might have subsisted, had it not been for several crols circumstances that attended this attempt-, and the total neglect of the court of Spain, who abandoned this settlement entirely, perhaps from a disgust occasioned by the unfaithful reports made by the projector of the establishment. These causes, in all probability, contributed more to the destruction of the colony, than any harm they suffered from the natives -, as Sir John Nar- describes the people hereabouts rather less savage than elsewhere. Even on the defart coasts of Patagonia , a colony might subsist on the hunting and fishing they afford -, and if the establishment was nursed a few years in the beginning, it might soon stand on its own legs. The air is confessedly wholfome, and the foil not unfertile, especially in pasturage. " This country," fays Nar- horough , " offers considerable advantages to those who " would inhabit it; as all the European fruits grow " well, and there is plenty of pasture for cattle." It seems to want nothing so much as wood for building. Even the Terra del Fuego , notwithstanding of the dismal prospect its rocky coasts offer to the mariner, contains many fine valleys, well wooded and watered, and good ports. Here Nodal found one tribe or nation of Indians , tractable enough; in which they differed much from their neighbours, who have generally shunned all commerce with Europeans. The commodities of Magellanica , most proper for commerce, seem to be deer and sea-lions skins, some of which are thirty six feet long-, fossils fit for dying, used by the natives, and the wool of the Vicunnas, Guana cos, and Llamas. The wool of the Guanaco in particular is so sine, that it is preferred to silk. The hair of the sea-calf is superior to beaver. The Indians Vol. III. . 4Y here
722 Advantages from forming Colonies here, have a species of furs of the {kins of fea-fowl, which they sow together, after taking oft' the strong feathers, and leaving only the fine down. All these commodities may be had of the savages for iron and bits of glass, and especially far red cloth, a colour those people are so fond of, that they always endeavour to seize env thing that is red, and sometimes they have even torn the cocks-combs off, seeing them red. The aromatic tree we have often mentioned as common in the Straight, produces a white hot species of pepper. Its bark is reckoned an excellent fpicery, of which great quantities may be gathered with ease, and the Spaniards sold it in Europe for 16 reals a-pound. On the desert coast to the south of Rio de la Plata , are found vast droves of horned cattle and wild horses, bred from the beasts imported from Spain. These pasture down towards the Straight, and multiply every day, though the Indians daily kill great numbers of them, and their flesh is said to be as good as that of bullocks. Vast numbers of ostriches are found along the coasts of Patagonia* and pearl-oysters in the Straights. The ostrich-feathers are much valued by the natives, and they even use them as money in their barters. Though the pearls are neither very large, nor of a good water, yet this is compensated, in some measure by their numbers, and the facility with which they are gather- ed. The shells, both of the oysters, and other shellfish., are the largest and most beautiful in the known world. Mussels are found here two feet long, besides other large shells, which are found petrified on the mountains. These naturss productions, form a valuable article, of European commerce, ever since persons of curiosity began to form cabinet's of natural curiosities; and from this coast, (especially that part of it which borders on Chili)* they may be plentifully supplied. At present they are used by the Indians only as lime, though many of them, by their beauty, and diversity of colouring, would fetch a great price in Europe. New discoveries form new wants to mankind: and
in the TerRA AustkaLIS. and often a species of natural production, seemingly of very small value, has been the fortunate occasion of immense gains to many : A strong instance of this occurs in the tobacco trade. We may also conjecture, that the si siring for whales and sea-cows on the Magellanic coasts, where vast numbers of these are found, would open a beneficial commerce. We all know the prodigious demand there is for whale-oil. At present, this fishing is only carried on in the northern seas, and is so lucrative, that the Dutch have always endeavoured to keep it entirely to themselves, in spite of the fatigue and danger it is attended with. The whale is not easily killed, and often the fisirers boats are overset by them, and sometimes both ships and crews are lost among the ice. When killed, the method used by the Dutch of drawing off the oil on these northern coasts is exceedingly troublesome, if done ashore: and, if on board, by the means of furnaces, much room in the ship must be allotted for holding wood: Yet still this si siring is found so profitable, that the Dutch employ annually near 300 fail in it. Why the trials hitherto made by the Britijh subjects, have not answered their expectation, we are a loss to fay. Perhaps were our people to try this fishing in the Straights of Magellan , the execution would be found more easy, the dangers less, and the profits more considerable. It is generally said, that the whales to the south are larger than those in the north sea, and in much greater numbers. It is however true that Dumpier fays, that he found the whales near the line, much smaller than in the southern ocean. Le Maire asserts, that he found 2CO whales here, for one seen in the north sea. May not this happen from their being less disturbed here than towards the other pole ? He this as it may, there are still other fishings on the Magellanic coasts, which would surely be profitable, though not attended with the fame ris\and expence as the whale fishery. Such is that of the sea lion, an animal that yields avast quantity of oil, and is very ea- 4 Y 2 . sily 723
724 Andvantdges from forming Colonies sily killed ashore by the stroke of a club. Though much less oil is extracted from one of these, than from the whale, yet their vast numbers abundantly supply this defect: and even at Spitzbergen , Martins assures us, that it is common to load ships with their oil, when the whale-fishery is not abundant. In the southern hemisphere, those animals are not only more numerous, but much bigger, than in the north. Selkirk , who lived four years alone on the island of Juan Fernandez , fays, he saw one twenty feet long, which weighed 4000 lib. Captains Rogers, Beauchefne , and others, tell us, they drew vast quantities of oil from them. This is much easier performed in the Magellannic Sraights than in the north, where wood is not to be had and therefore they now bring home the whale blubber in castes. Add to this, that as the cold in the Straights is not nearly so violent as at Sptzbergen , so this operation must be proportionably easier, and the fishers might even pass the winter here, which at Spitz - bergm is impossible. The Dutch tried the experiment twice, but the men they left on that defart coast perished. We only here mention these facts gleaned from the different journals, in order to evince, that this country hitherto reckoned the most barren and unprofitable in the universe, has yet its articles of commerce. The all-wife Author of the creation has made nothing useless, nothing in vain ■, even the dreary coasts of Spitzbergen and Hudson's bay make profitable returns to the merchant. We only indicate these objects in a cursory manner, leaving it to the judgement of the real merchant to determine, how far the returns expected may be able to defray the charges of the voyage. If ever a settlement is founded, either in Patagonia , or on the Straights about Phillips ilk, where Sarmisnto settled his colony, it would be easy to open from thence a communication with Chili over land, the richest and most fertile country in South America. Knivet says, that even in the 16th century, the Spaniards had this in view.
in the Terra AustilaUs. view. Nothing indeed is more easy, since we see that people pass from the Brasils by land to Chili and Peru, where the continent is broader. Pizarro made the journey twice from Buenos Ayr es to Chili ; and an Indian messenger, sent to him, performed it in thirteen days, notwithstanding the difficulty of passing the Unties. Roderigo de /' Isle traversed Patagonia almost en - tirely, and would have finished his route, if his company had not lost courage, and stopped, when they were got near to Chili. It is very true, that such a route would be less beneficial to commerce, which is generally carried on cheaper by sea but still geography would be improved ; an object of the highest importance to all mankind. The ascertaining the form of the inhabitants of this antarctic region, would be a considerable addition to our stock of natural knowledge, and decide a very curious problem respecting the human species. If the Pa- tagonitins are found to be of the size of the inhabitants ot Lapland, this would prove that climate alone fixes the stature of mankind, as we cannot suppose any migration from one pole to the other. It must be owned, that the accounts given by some navigators, of the gigantic stature of the Patagonians , gives us no i- dea of any such conformity of figure. Neither do Cither relations add any weight to such a hypothesis ; as though they contradict the others, asserting the enormous size of this people, yet represent them as of the common stature. Indeed Knivet is the only writer who represents them as no taller than the Laplanders , allowing them no more than five or six spans of height. Brunette fays, that on the Terra del Fuego , he found them well made, robust, white, like the Europeans, and not tawny as the Laplanders are. It is true, that Lapland lies nearer to the north, than Patagonia to the south pole. The total contradiction we find in the accounts of the size of this nation, asserted by eye-witnefles, and in a matter in which we should think it impossible to be deceived -2Z
6 Advantages from forming Colonies deceived, is truly amazing. We have already seen, from the foregoing journals, that, for an hundred years together, all the writers of every nation agreed in attesting the existence of these giants; and that during the next century, all the navigators concur in denying this fact, and treating the accounts of their predecessors as a mere chimera, founded on the terror inspired by the appearance of these savages, or the inclination that travellers generally discover for the marvellous. It is not to be denied, that both these causes may act powerfully on the mind of man. Let us examine, however, if all those who affirm the fact, conversed with these Savages when under the influence of fear, or how it comes, that Europeans of different nations, who had no opportunity of knowing what was seen by others, notwithstanding, agree in asserting a falsehood. We shall not stop here to review the ancient traditions found both in America and in the old world, that formerly there existed upon this earth a race of giants, famous for the violence they exercised, and the crimes they committed. This universal tradition (for universal it is,) may be founded on the history of Moses , where he treats of the antediluvian giants. " 1 was told, (fays Barbinais,) that during a deluge which covered Peru , the Indians retired to the high- " est mountains, to wait the abatement of the flood. " When they descended afterwards to the plains, they " found them occupied by a gigantic race, who made " cruel war on them, and obliged the survivors to seek " an asylum in the caves of the mountains, xdaving " continued some years lurking in these retreats, they " at last saw a young man appear from the clouds, " who destroyed the giants by thunder and lightning. " After their total extirpation,, the Indians repossessed " their ancient dwellings. My guides showed me the " marks of thunder on the rocks in many places, and " bones of an enormous size, which they suppose be-
in the Terra Australis. " longed to these giants, though they could tell me " nothing of the time when this happened." The Inca* Garijlasso de la Vega mentions a common tradition among his countrymen to the following effect : That long ago there arrived at the Point St. Helena , a number of giants in canoes made of reeds, so very tall, that the inhabitants reached only to their knees. Their eyes were as large as a platter, and all their other members in proportion. They were mostly naked, or covered with the skins of beasts. In the canton where they landed, they digged a pit of a most astonishing depth. Each of them devoured as much as fifty men could eat, and, having quickly consumed all the fruits of the earth, they were constrained to live on fish. They carried off the women of the country, but as, in attempting to enjoy them, they killed them all, the giants took to the crime of sodomy, Fire then descended from heaven, and entirely destroyed this cursed race ; only some of their bones and skulls were left, a monument of the vengeance of heaven. In fact, we are told that, in this part of the country, are found bones of an enormous size, and pieces of teeth of half a pound weight. It were easy to quote many more Indian traditions on this subject. The curious reader will find many of them in Forquemada' s book st. All these fables greatly resemble the traditions relating to giants, which are found almost in every part of the old world, and have no better authority to rest on. There were some large bones shown at Mexico in the year 1550, said to be those of giants, which probably were no ether than the bones of some unknown animals, like those found in Siberia , said to be the bones of the Manumits, though nobody yet has been able to inform us, what kind of animal this was. Nothing but the actual seeing such a race of giants, can establilh their existence: at least, the defenders of this assertion ought to produce an en- * Hist. of Peru. B.ix. C. 9. Vide Pedro and Chieca, cap. 52. f Lib. i. cap. 13. St 14. 727 tire
•jzZ Advantages from forming Colonies tire skeleton of one of those men, to remove our doubts. Thus, though 'Turner tells us, that he showed the thighbone of a giant at London, anno 1610, the proportions of which proved that the person, to whom it belonged, was of a prodigious stature, yet still this cannot be regarded as decisive. Turner adds, that he saw himself on the coast of Bras I , near the river De la Plata, a race of giants, who went entirely naked : That the hinder part of their skulls was flat, and not round : Their worn en had long black hair, as coarse as a horse-mane. They are (says he,) excellent archers, and were besides armed with two bullets, which they used with great address, either by throwing at a distance, or by striking with them near at hand. He adds, that one of these men he saw, was twelve feet high. Indeed he fays, this was one of the tallest among them. But what shall we fay on the other hand to the testimony of those, who assert they have seen the giants on the Palagonian coast ? Shall we reject the concurring evidence of Magellan , Loaifa, Sarmiento , Nodal , among the Spaniards ; of th to Dutch, Sebald de Weert , No or dt j Maire , and Spill erg, and of Candifh ; Hawkins and Knivet among our own countrymen; not to mention the late accounts of this people, we have from those who made the voyage of the Straits with Commodore Byron? Shall we reject, I fay, the concurring testimony of so many, who affirm, that they not only saw these extraordinary men, but that they eat and drank with them, had them on board their ships, and exchanged goods and toys with them? On the contrary, Winter, who was long in the Straits of Magellan, and had an opportunity of feeing with his own eyes, roundly affirms, that the'whole is a lye, invented by the Spaniards. Jaquee, LNiermite , the Dutch Admiral, Froger, and Narborotigk , are of the same opinion. The testimony of Sir John Narborougb must be allowed to be of great weight in this question as this famous navigator examined this part of the world with more accuracy than any person else. To these we may
in the Terra Australis. be allowed to join those who keep silence on this subject altogether, such as Sir Francis JDrake, and others ■who would scarcely have omitted this circumstance, had they seen any thing extraordinary in the stature of those people. Some have attempted to conciliate these contradictory accounts, by luppusing, that thole who tell us of giants *, spealc of thole Patag.nians they found on the desarc coasts that jy to the east and west, and that those who deny seeing any giants in those parts, .mean to tell us only of the tribes that inhabit the north and south sides of the Straits on the outermost point of the continent of America. Yet,y/e can scarcely admit this solution, when we reflect, that none of these tribes have any fixed abodes, but that they wander indiscriminately overall the Straits, and the coasts that ly to the east and west, as they find it most conducive to their purposes of hunting and fishing. These nations are not the same, and it is not extraordinary to fee the Pa- tagonians from the east and west coasts down in the Straits of Magellan, when we consider that the distance from thence -is but small to Port St. Julian , which seems to be the common residence of those to the eastward. We are indeed told, that Magellan carried off with him two of these giants, one of whom was baptized before he died, and had taught Pigafetta, (the 'author of this account,) a great many words of his language, of which the Italian writer had composed a fort of little dictionary. One would think, that nothing could be more positive than such facts as these, or less subjected to illusion. " 1 affirm, (says Knives,) that being at Port Desire , I there measured several dead bodies found in their sepulchres, and also the prints on the sand, by which I found that their stature must be 14, 15, and 16 spans. I have often seen in the Brafils, one of the Patagonidns taken at Port St. Julian , and, though a very young man, he "Was 13 spans high, and the English, vffiowere * Vide Voyag. aux Terr. Auftr. Vol. II. p. 3.27. Vol. III. 4 ' Z prisoner^
730 Advantages from forming Colonies prisoners there, assured me they had often seen men os equal stature near the Straits of Magellan ." Seba/d de. IFert affirms, that he found in the Straits giants, who tore up trees of a span diamer; and O.iver de Noordt , though he does not call them giants, yet talks of them as being remarkably tall, and says, that he took six of them prisoners, one of whom told him afterwards, that the country was inhabited by different nations or tribes, four of which were of the ordinary stature ; but that in the interiour part of the country in a territory called Coin, there was a race of giants called by them 'Tire- menen, who often made war on the other tribes. Sfil- berg fays, he saw on the Terra, del Fuego a man of great itaturej but the tombs he found there appeared not to exceed the common size. Aris CAasg , Commissary on b.iard Le Maire's fleet, who appears to have been a sensible and judicious man, declares, that, having visited the lepulctires on the coast of Patagonia, he found the hones must have belonged to men who were ten, or eieven feet high. Here we have an examination made at full leisure, and during which, fear could have no share in augmenting the objects. Others, such as Nodal and Hawkins, speak of these Savages, as being taller by the head than the Europeans, and fay, that the seamen called them giants. AU these accounts are of an oki date: But nor to mention the very late accounts we have of the people seen by Commodore Byron, Frezier tells us, that, in the year 1704, the Captains Harrington and Carman, commanding two vessels from St. Malo *, saw, at one time, seven of these giants in Possession Bay ; ac another time - fix; and lastly, they met with a lar^e company of Savages, consisting of above 200, some of whom were very tall, and the rest of the ordinary stature. They added, that they had an amicable correspondence with them, nor did these Indians offer them any insult. Frezier indeed, never saw any of these giants, but * The Authorof the Voyages noxTerr. Anstr. Vol. II. p.329. fays, he had this.-account from h'rfsier himself, fays,
in the Terra Austrai.is. fays, that when he was in Chili, Pedro Molina, Go* veimour of the island Cbiloe\ and many other eye-witnesses, had assured him, that far in the inland was found a nation of Savages, called by their neighbours Cancohues , who sometimes came down to where the Spaniards have their habitations, and were, in general, nine or ten feet high, and these, says he, are the Pa- ta%onians ,mentioned in the old journals. Ravenau de Lnjfan tells us, that the Spaniards on the coasts of the South Sea, have for enemies a race of white Indians ; who possess a part of Chili , very tall and strong. They are at constant War with the Spaniards, and when they make a prisoner, they tear off his breast-bone, as one would the shell of a tortoise, and take out his heart *. Yet Sir John Narborougb, at the fame time that he takes notice of these Indians of Chili, who are constantly at war with the Spaniards, formally denies that they are of a gigantic stature; and his testimony is strengthened by that of the Spanish writers themselves, who; in their long accounts of the conquest of Chili, and the frequent revolts of the inhabitants, never mention their extraordinary stature, though they describe them as strong, and remarkably nimble and active. Narbe- rough fays; that he has often measured the skulls, and the tracks of the Savages in the Straits of Magellan ;■ without finding them bigger than those of other people, and that those of them he met with at Port St. 'Julian, though well made, did not exceed the common stature of mankind. We have not the least reason to doubt the truth of his relation, no more than that of L'Hermite, who found the inhabitants of the Terra del Fttego, strong and hardy; but not beyond the common size, and De Gennes affirms, .that none of the Savages he law at Port Famine, were six feet high. Thus we have endeavoured to lay before the reader all the accounts we have on this curious subject, as well on the affirmative, as on the negative side of the * Vkle Account of the Buccanneers, anno i68j. 4 Z 2 73 * question*
73 2 Advantages from forming Colonies question, and must now leave him to judge for himself, after adding a few reflections, which seem naturally-to arise from the subject. In the first place, it appears certain from Oliver de Noo'rdt , that, two centuries ago, the inhabitants of those desart coasts continued their habitual residence on both sides of the Straits, till, being scared by European vessel?, they retreated into the inner parts of the country. Thele men, as far as we can learn, were of the ordinary size, and, for the reason before given, they were seldom ieen, though tiieir tracks were often perceived Arson thinks, that they generally inhabit the Cordu..,as on the western side, and come to the east side only at certain intervals-, and hence the cause, why, for the last century, they have been seldom seen to the eastward. This is the more probable, if we reflect that, of late, they have been generally found in large companies. We have before observed, that it would have been easy for those navigators, who had got some of the Pa- tagonians on board, to have brought home the skeletons of some of those, who died at sea, on their coming into the warm latitudes. Shall we suppose, that this was prevented by the idle superstition of the common sailors, who fancy, that the compass will not traverse, while there is a corpse on board ? The passages opened by Magellan and Le Make, have greatly facilitated the important commerce of the South Sea -, and th^ latter be.ng found much the easiest route, has rendered the former useless. But perhaps it were better not to go by any of these passages ; and the most experienced seamen are now of opinion, that the safest method is, to hold quite to the south, and so double all the lands, without approaching any coast, after the example of Feuillee , Brotuers, Sharp, Beauchene , and others. By this course, they would generally have smoother water, and avoid the great difficulties that attend doubling Cape Horn by an east course, while it is easy to get round this point,
733 in the Terra Australis. point, in coming from the west. Mr. Anfon ha's supported this opinion by the most cogent reasons, and has very well explained how the greatest masses of air and water, that are collected in the Pacific Ocean, being driven by the west wind, and finding an obstacle in their course from the southern point of America , are thereby forced round that point of land -, and hence the violent storms, and heavy seas, found off Cape Horn. Neither do we gain any thing by palling thro* the Straits of Le Make , since the currents generally carry ships to the south-east of Staten-Land. But in the other course, all is open ; for we know of no land, beyond Staten-Land, near it, either to the south or east ; and the Straits called .Brewer's, and those of La Roche , are generally supposed fictitious. If any navigator chuses to go by Le ALsor's Strait, he will do well to observe the directions of Frezier, and to observe the course of the rapid tides here, which sometimes set violently to. the west, and sometimes to the east. These different motions may be supposed to have stated periods, which may be easily ascertained by careful observations, and the navigation thereby greatly facilitated, which, by some seamen has been found very dangerous. With regard to the passage of Magellan, it was certainly right to abandon it, especially in going towards the South Sea, though in returning, it may be used with greater safety, on account of the winds at west and north-west being generally favourable, and also the tides ; and it would appear, that the best time for making that passage, is from the fummer-solstice, to the follo.ving equinox. It has been asserted by many able navigators, that it is a better route by Cape Horn from Europe, to the islands of the East-Indies, than by. the Cape of Good Hope ; and that the voyage will be made in less time this way, than by the other, though the course is longer. In fact, after doubling Cape /Ar-r, the navi- jgation is speedy in the South Lea, where the winds always v
73 + Advantages from forming Colonies ways blow from the south-east ; whereas, in the other course, we are forced to run into distant latitudes, in order to find the trade-winds, besides the loss of time in waiting for the monsoons. In fact, after the return of Garcia de Nodal r , the Spaniards had serious thoughts of sending their (hips by this way, but were diverted from it by the fear of the large fleets of men of war, the Dutch sent into these seas soon after. The different journals we have collected in this, and the preceding volumes show, how quickly the principal navigators finished the tour of the globe, by holding this course. We have, in one of the foreign literary journals *, an account of one Peacock, a Scotchman, who, failing from the Havdnab by the way of Cape Horn , got to Japan in four months* and, in somewhat less time, returned from the East to the Weft Indies , by the Cape of Good Hope, having spent only seven months, and 2 6 days, in going round the world, a degree of expedition hitherto unheard of. Were this course more frequented, it would extend our discoveries in Polynesia, and perhaps enable us to And some proper place for a settlement. The discoveries, begun by phiiros and Mindana, have been little attended to, much less prosecuted, as their importance requires ; none, that we know of, having visited these latitudes on such a design during two centuries, excepting the Dutchman Roggewein: Schoulen , Le Maire, Anfon , and others, who have visited these seas, had quite other objects in view. They generally held one course across the Pacific Ocean, and nearly under the fame parallels, though, as that intelligent mariner, Captain Rogers , justly observes, there remains a tract of 2000 leagues of sea, extending from the line to the south pole, which has been very little examined, and where, in all probability, there must be some large continent, to balance the immense tracts of land adjacent to the north pole. We refer our rea- * Vide Journal Etranger. Juillet, 1754.' Voyag, aux Terrj Austr, Tom. ii. p, 357. ders,
735 . in the Terra Australis. tiers, who chuse to examine this subject: further, to Captain Wood 's Memorial on the commerce of the South Sea, which they will find well worth their perusal. We have purposely been the longer on this subject, in order to obviate the common objection against forming any establishment in Polynesia , from the immense distance, and the length and hazard of the voyage. Were this course oftener followed, these difficulties would vanilh. The dangers that were thought to attend a voyage to America from Europe, are no longer regarded -, and if we may giye credit to the accounts of Commodore Byron's late expedition, we have reason to think, that the passage round Cape Horn , will not appear in the terrible light we have been accustomed to view it in. We must observe further, that the numberless island? lying in the wide extended ocean, which, separates Asia from America , afford ample choice of happy situations for a colony, as none of the islands in this district, which we call Polynesia , are occupied by any European power, if we except the Spanish trilling settlement in the Padrones. The climate here promises better things, than the cold and desart coasts of Magella- nica . The air is mild and temperate, and the different islands furnilh every sort of fruit and provision. Tho 5 we have not such full knowledge of the interiour part of these numberless islands, as to determine precisely, what branches of commerce might be here best carried on •" yet we know more than enough to. induce us to examine them further. We can already reckon on finding here sugar, indigo, a variety of medicinal plants, and materials for dying, one of which is a red, said to be far superiour to any thing we are acquainted with in this hemisphere. Here also is found ginger, cinnamon, coral, pearls, silk of a peculiar kind, and many other rich commodities. Rogers fays, he was informed by the Spaniards at Guam , that they found gold in the islands lying betwixt that and Japan ;
7z6 Advantages from forming Colonies- and he adds, that if the Spaniards had the smallest industry, they might export indigo from these islands to a vait amount. Roggeivein fays, that it were easy to establish a fine pearl-fishery here, as the natives are the best divers in the world. Of all the merchandizes we could fend these nations, nothing is so highly valued by them as iron-instruments of all kinds, or even in bars. We have seen iti the different journals, that there is no danger they will not run, nor species of fheft they will not commit, to obtain tiffs precious metal; and mhny of these islanders are found of a very tractable disposition, and ready to engage in commerce. Among such, it would be no difficult matter to form a colony, the Vast Utility of which woultksoon be felt with regard to geography, navigation, and physical knowledge, every thing being singular here, the sea, the an ^ ' t§ inhabitants. We have observed, (Book I.) what Curious researches might be here giade into the minds and manners of men, divided for many ages from the rest r-v of the world, by extensive seas. Here, it any where, we may expect to find a faithful picture of the innocence and simplicity of the first ages, in these little societies, who are deprived of all help from the rest of mankind, and shut up in distant islands. Here they live, fays Le JWaire, as in the golden ages of the poets, and here we find men simple, and just as they came from the hand of nature.' Another curious subject of investigation would be the different races and colours of rijen, found in theie islands, though lying under the fame parallels neatly : Some are white some black - some mulattoes, with long hair; and some quite black, with wool, like Negroes. This sterns to prove, that these islanders communicate with each other ; and as they have no. boats capable ot performing long voyages, we may reasonably conclude, that theie islands ly near each other in a line; and indeed .experience has verified this in all of them that have been discovered. Ouiros , in his first memorial, has made so tire very ^ judicious
in the Terra Austrlis. 737 judicious observations on the subject of that curious piece, which we have translated from the Spanijh , and inserted in this collection. Another remarkable singularity occurs here, that almost all these islands in this vast ocean are very small: Most of them are from four, to eight leagues in circumference, and the number of lesser ones is infinite. Many of them are drowned in the middle, while the edge of the shore stands out of the water like a causeway. Thus we may consider this long chain of islands, as a mountain of vast length, the summits of which appear here and there above water. This becomes more probable from what the people of the Manila galleons tell us, that they have often found ground in the middle of this vast ocean, and at a great distance- from any Ihore, The position of these islands in longitude, is not well known, especially those which lye betwixt the Equator, and the southern tropic. It is only during this century, that we have better ascertained the breadth of the Pacific ocean. Dampier has made several very accurate remarks on this subject, and also observes, that the height of the mountains on the coast, and their declivity, generally correspond with the Ihoaling of the water, and the depth of the sea near them. Thus, if the depth of the South Sea corresponds to the greatest height of the Cordillera , we may estimate it at 3220 fathoms, that being the perpendicular altitude of the mountain Chimborago. as taken by Mr. Bouguer. The other chain of hills, parallel to the Cordillera , and bounding the great valley in which the Pacific Ocean lies, to the west, is certainly not so high as the Cordil * lera, and we only fee its summits standing by intervals out of the water, in a chain of islands lying betwixt the peninsula of ICamschatka and the southern continent. This chain shoots out long branches towards the east, perpendicular to its principal direction, the tops of which appear in islands and shoals in the south sea. The ingenious author of the Voyages aux 1 'erres AEftra- Vol. III. 5 A les t
7Z8 Advantages from forming Colonies les*, has applied this observation to other seas and continents, with his usual accuracy, and to him we must refer the reader, that we may not render this part of pur work too diffuse. We have however to add here, that of necessity the chain of isles in the Pacific Ocean, must extend very far to the south in this sea, as- well as to the southern part of the Indian Ocean, since Scbouton met at sea a large piragua full of people, above ioo leagues to the south west of the isle of Guam. Beyond the 6 3 degrees of south latitude, we imagine there are no lands, none having been seen hereabouts, and the outmost southern land where Drake landed, appears to lie in latitude 62 or 63 degrees. The course that seems to bid fairest for a thorough discovery of these many islands, appears to be that which may be gone betwixt the two tropics. By this, way too, we should always find refreshments, if not in the islands themselves (though these offer helps of all kinds) yet certainly in the isle of Guam , where the inhabitants, on account of their immense distance fronq Europe , take no part in the quarrels of our hemisphere, but traffic with every nation indiscriminately. The space betwixt one island and another, in this course, we know by experience is not great, as land fowls are always found hying hereabouts ; and were one istand rightly chosen, in the centre of the Polynesia to form an establishment upon, we might soon see it a large mart, of equal use to us, that Batavia is just now to the Dutch , who form this point, and have gradually extended their commerce over a vser number of circumjacent islands. It has been thought, that the istand of "Juan Fernandez would be a proper place to fix a colony for this purpose, on account of the convenience of refreshment and fresh water to the vessels which double Cape Horn : But not to mention its vicinity to the Spanish. coasts, it seems too far removed /rom these istand's where- the * Tom. 2. p. 356. et seq. principal
in the Terra Australis. principal traffic would most probably be carried on The Dutch seem to have thought of occupying this 1 - fiandin 17-21, but their commander Roggewein did not return to the Uorth lea by the way he came, and now it would be difficult to do it, as the Spaniards are said to be Fortifying it. Instead therefore of c Juan Fernandez , we may perhaps turn our views towards the island called Cocoas , from the multitude of these trees upon it, lying in 50 degrees 15 minutes north-latitude. This is a tine island tho' uninhabited. On the north-east fide there is a sine river, at the mouth of which there is formed a secure harbour. The land rises gently from the coast, covered with noble trees and fruits of all kinds. Those who have been upon it, talk of it as a most fruitful i- sland. The only objection against it is, that it lies rather out of our way in these seas. Mocha , and St. Maries , lye too near the continent. We should therefore think, that a colony fettled somewhere on the great con- tint of New Guinea might answer better. It is easier to go from our settlements On the continent of Afta, to New Guinea than to China , or the Philippines, and as it appears to us, the large island, discovered by Dumpier, and called by him New Britain , is, of all other places hereabouts, the most proper for us to settle upon. Our readers may peruse this celebrated navigator's account of it, and he need only look into the map, to fee, that any colony, properly fetted on this island (as yet unoccupied), may easily extend its commerce not only co Japan and China, but also to tint Moluccas, the spice islands, the Philtppines, New Guinea , and the vast continent of New Holland , as also to the many unknown lands which lie dispersed in the great South Sea. By prosecuting this enterprise with constancy and resolution, it is certain that all these vast tracts of land in the neighbourhood of this island, would soon be discovered. This attempt demands time and expcnce, such. as a potent nation may well bestow from a certainty of being reimbursed an hundred fold. It is not the 5 A 2 work
74 ° Advantages from forming Colonies work of one year, nor of one mans life, but powerful nations should calculate by centuries, not by days. They Ihould consider themselves as individuals subsisting for ever, and lay plans only for eternity. We have seen Spain , Portugal , and Holland , distinguish themselves, and bring home prodigious sums from their colonies in this part of the world ; and perhaps, at no period of our history, was it ever so much in our power to execute a plan of this sort as now, whether we consider our naval strength at home, or the flourishing state of our Eajl-India company abroad. The immense sums drawn daily from their new acquisitions in India , makes it easy for them to extend themselves into Au- flralafta> with very little a distance from government. But if ever this becomes a national concern, the progress would be rapid. The Dutch were far inferior to us in naval strength, when they carried their discoveries and commerce to an amazing height in this part of the world. Perhaps it will here be asked, why this nation, lying so near to New Guinea^ have never settled it, or the island we have pointed out, as proper for such a purpose. The answer is obvious: So small a nation as Holland has enough to do to fill her colony at Batavia, and the six governments Are possesses at Coromandel , Ceylon, Malucca, Amboina , Terndte , and Banda. For the same reason, the Dutch Eajl-India Company rather chuses to pay an annual sum to the petty sovereigns of many i- slands that produce spiceries, to make them destroy these precious plants, than to keep the government of them in their own hands. In this they certainly follow the most gainful method; but this very method is a proof, how easy it would be for any other commercial nation to carry off their gains, by having a settlement in the same quarter of the globe. The difficulty that may be met with in civilizing thole savages, who now possess the countries we are talking of, need not affright us. Not to mention, that many of these islanders are singularly peaceful and obliging
in the TerrA Austral is. 74t liging already, we all know that society, intercourse, and commerce, are so congenial to the mind of man, that no great effort would be necessary to bring them to value these blessings, and less than it cost the Titans, Cadmas , or Theseus, to form societies of the savages they found in ancient Greece and Italy. We shall not here repeat what we have formerly said on this subject, (Vol. I. Book I.) It has been observed that in that part of Australasia, that lies betwixt the tropics, and particularly in the islands, there is found a race of Negroes intirely resembling those of Africa, those separated by immense tracts of ocean from that country. These tribes are found principally in New-Guinea, and m the Philippines, totally distinct from the ancient inhabitants of these isles,' who are thought to be of Malaian extraction. The language of these negroes is only understood and spoken by themselves, Their aspect is hideous, and they live like mere brutes, without religion, government, or settled habitation. In a word, they are totally distinct from any race of men in this hemisphere. May we not conjecture, with a modern French writer, that both the negroes in the if and parts of Africa, and those who inhabited the islands of Australasia, are the original and primary tribes, who lived in the torrid zone ; that they at first possessed great part of the continent of Asia, till they were forced to retreat by other nations, into New Guinea , and the adjacent islands. We may conjecture too, that this original race was soon destroyed upon the continent by the Indians, Tartars, and Mahometans ; but those who fled into the islands remain to this day, not being so easily come at in these distant places. Hence we find some relicts of them in the interior parts of thd great islands of Borneo, Ceylon, and Formosa ; while New Holland, and the other southern islands are occupied by them alone, no nation having hitherto appeared to dispossess them. We hope our readers will pardon this little digression, and permit us to return to our principal subject. We
Advantages from forming Colonies We have mentioned New Britain as a proper place to settle in, From its advantageous situation with respect to those countries where commerce is already established, Another advantage that distinguishes it, is the climate as lying not far from the equator, where (according to Dampier) we may always expect to find more materials for commerce, than in higher latitudes ; Van Diemens land, and New Zealand lie far to the south, and are little known. The coasts of that large country called New Holland , are of very difficult access, and the parts that lie next the South Sea, absolutely naked and barren. Carpentaria labours under the same disadvantages. Dampier complains that its coasts are represented oh the charts in a continued line, when in fact they compose a dangerous labyrinth of straits and small islands, and on these, scarce any frelh water is to be found. Kone of these places ever appear fit for the first attempts, though they may be settled afterwards, and perhaps to advantage. The great country of which Quires was the discoverer, is represented by him as very rich and fruitful, and Schcuten and Roggewei/i, who visited several islands in its neighbourhood, seem to think that his account is not exaggerated. But then this country has not been visited for a century and an half by-past, and it also lies too far distant from the coasts frequented by the traders to India. The land of the Papous near Gilolu , and the little island SaBuda , betwixt Ceram and the former, are advantageously spoken of, but the first is dangerous to approach, from the shoals and rocks which lye before it, and the last is much too small. For all these reasons, and many more that might be added, both Roggewein and Dampier agree in giving the preference to New Britain on account of its size and situation, the salubrity of the air and fertility of the soil. Its whole appearance seems to indicate the riches it is laid to contain, and its neighbourhood to lands already well known, leave little room to doubt these conjectured
in the Te.rra Australis. 7*3 tures in its favour. Hence the ingenious French editor of the Voyages aux 7erres Auflrales -j* thinks, there is no place so proper as this to fix on. He proposes to settle it by sending three snips from Pondicberry , completely filled out with every necessary, men, arms, ammunition and provisions, for beginning a settlement here. He thinks best, after doubling Cape Mabc , to examine the west coast of the island, which neither Dampier nor Roggewein approached, to try to find there some good port, near to New Guinea, without going round the island to seek the bay St. George , or port Montague described by our navigator. It will be no difficult matter to maintain ourselves here amid savages who are ignorant of the use of fire arms, and who may be soon reconciled to the sweets of commerce. It must be very obvious, that it is as easy for us to fettle New Britain from Madrass , as to the French] from Pondicberry ; as as much provisions of all kinds can be sent with the first ships, as may enable the colony to subsist even without the assistance of the natives, till they can be a- gain relieved from the continent. One of the three ships may be sent back for assistance from Madrass , the second may be employed in perfecting the discovery of the island itself, and those of the neighbourhood, and establishing a trade with the different tribes of savages who inhabit them, while the third vestal may remain to guard the colony, and be a retreat to them, should any unforeseen misfortune oblige them to abandon the island. It is needless to observe, that the conductor of this enterprise must be a person of equal prudence and fortitude. He must not be strictly tied down to formal instructions, but much must be left to his own determination, after he is on the spot. In short, here we should adopt the maxim, Mitte Sapientem , et nihil dicas. The f Tom. 2. p. 385. et seq.
744 Advantages from fanning Colonies The Dutch custom of promising additional rewards, besides pay, to their sailors sent ouf to make discoveries, is certamly founded on reason, and should be a- dopted by us on the like occasions. All sorts of artificers should be sent to aid this new colony, such as carpenters, smiths, weavers, and the like. Their work is not only absolutely requisite to the colonists, but would be very useful to gain the esteem of the natives, by the help^ they could afford them in procuring many necessaries and conveniencies of life utterly unknown to these savages, to gain whose e- fteem and confidence, no pains should be spared. The Spaniards by a conduct iritirely opposite to this, have rendered large countries useless to themselves, and to their wretched inhabitants, who might, by good usage, have greatly augmented their power in both the Indies. We must here refer our readers to the sensible remarks made by Datnpier and Roggewcin on this subject, men, who, having spent their li res in treating with different savages, may surely be presumed to be well acquainted with this subject. If there is any point on which the mind of man is more tenacious than another, it is that of religion. Hence we should be careful not to shock x.\iz Indians on this subject at first. Time, acquaintance, and fair reasoning, will do more to reclaim them from their error! rs (especially if these are attended with a good example, and fair dealing) than any other means whatever. Above all things, the population in a new colony should be encouraged by every prudent method, as the foundation of every hope of success. This important article, so essential to the welfare of every state, is unfortunately much neglected in every kingdom of Europe. We endeayour, by every method, to multiply those productions which are uieful to mankind, while we neglect the means of multiplying the human race that should use them. The learned French author, we have so often cited in
745 A in the Terra AustralIs.' in the course of this work, observes, that in new discovered lands, it is better to impose names, expressive of the quality or aspect of these lands than to follow the puerile devotion of the Spaniards , who generally give those of Saints to the places they first visit. He also thinks (in which jve perfectly agree with him) that it were better to follow the ancient method of reckoning the longitudes from the meridian of Ferro, than from that of Paris or London, because rival nations will not adopt any usage that seems to give a pre-eminence, however trifling to the other. Hence the ancient way of reckoning from the isiand Ferro , seems easiest, and less liable to inconveniencies, than any other, as it requires no calcule to adjust it to the way of reckoning used by the several nations of Europe. Learned geographers and able navigators will easily add many useful remarks to the loose hints I have here put together, which so far from exhausting this important subject, I would call only an imperfect table of contents ; though perhaps many will imagine too much is already said upon this matter, which they will, (it may be) deem an idle and chimerical project. Let such reflect, that they will hardly be able to say so much a- gainst it, as was urged against the noble attempt of Columbus in the end of the fifteenth century. For my part, 1 sit all never reckon my time mifpent in offering my thoughts upon a subject so useful to mankind in general, so conducive to the glory of my sovereign, and the prosperity of my native country. Alter erit turn Fy phis, et alt era qua vehat Ar go Deleft os keroas - Vi r g . ■Craigsorth, liear Stirling, Feb. 2j, 1768. End of the Third and Last Volume.





BpWWW|BWIP|gp|iP0B5WIWI l .ii.-^S^r.". rwumi " ?. ZMMN
MM W-jr'. w KMM + A rSfi* mm