10.3931/e-rara-62552

"orsc"*>,. ' ^jobsch^ •Zs/iucji



THE ORIGINAL ASTRONOMICAL OBSERV, MADE IN THE COURSE OF A VOYAGE towards the S O U T E AND. ROUN In his Majesty's Ships In the Years MDCCLXXI By WILL Master of the Roy; And Mr. Late A Publijhed by Orde, at the Expence 20 ^ 21 * LONDON: Printed by W. and A. Strahan; And fold by J. Nourse, in the Strand, and J. Mount and T. Paoi 23 22 ^ Booksellers to the said Board. MDCCLXXVIL 24-El 25-EEi 26-E3I 27- 28 ^ 2 -) 3 - LE, Jjtf RE, ^XY, 5-= 7 heE, 9-= r-HilJ, 10 - 11-=
THE ORIGINAL ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS, MADE IN THE COURSE OF A VOYAGE towards the SOUTH POLE, AND. ROUND THE WORLD, In his Majesty's Ships the RESOLUTION and ADVENTURE, In the Years MDCCLXXIs, MDCCLXXIII, MDCCLXXIV, and MDCCLXXV, By WILLIAM WALES, F. R. S. Master of the Royal Mathematical School in Christ's Hospital; And Mr. WILLIAM BAYLY, Late Assistant at the Royal Observatory. Published by Order of the Board of Longitude, at the Expence of which the Observations were made . * LONDON: Printed by W. and A. Strahan; And sold by J. Nourse, in the Strand, and J. Mount and T. Paoe, on Tower-HilJ, Booksellers to the said Board. MDCCLXXVII. m
si GESELLSCIIAFT £t/RICtt 4 "
■ * ^ TO THE RIGHT HONOURABLE JOHN Earl of SANDWICH, First Commistioner of the Boards of Admiralty and Longitude, &c. &c. &c. m y l o r D y I T affords me the highest Satisfaction that I am permitted to address the following Sheets to your Lordship, as the Patronage of a Nobleman to whom these Sciences, and Literature in general, owe so much, and to whom this Work in a peculiar Manner appertains, will undoubtedly secure to it a favourable Reception from all Persons ol Taste and Learning. It is indeed to your Lordship, and the other Honourable and Learned Gentlemen who constitute the Board of Longitude, that the Existence of this Work is to be attributed ; and to the fame fostering Care and generous Encouragement we are indebted for the present Accuracy of our Instruments, the Correctness of our Tables, and I may with Truth add, the Skill and Dexterity of the intelligent Mariner, who now makes those Observations with a Degree of Success, which a few Years ago was despaired, of. That-
DEDICATION. That your Lordship may long enjoy the high and important Offices, which you now fill so much to the Honour and Interest of the Nation, and to the Advancement of every useful Art and Science, is, I am-well assured, the sincere Wish of every Friend to the true Interests of this great Empire, and of none more than of, MY LORD, * Your Lordship's much obliged, most obedient, and faithful humble Servant, i Christ's Hospital, April 26th, 1777. WILLIAM WALES.
c o N T E N T S. Introduction, - - - - Pagev Asronomical Observations on Drake's Island, in Plymouth Sound, I -- at Fonchial, in Madeira, - - 5 ---- at the Cape os Good Hope, - - 7 - --- at Dusky Bay, in New Zealand, by W. Wales, 16 - " - . - at Queen Charlotte's Sound, in New Zealand, - by W. Bayly, - - - - 27 - ------- Ditto, byVf. Wales, - 48 - --- at Point Venus, in Otaheite - 50 at Queen Charlotte's Sound, a second time, by W. Wales, - - - . - 57 Observations on the dip of the Needle at Tolaga Bay, by W. Bayly, 66 Asronomical Observations at Flue en Charlotte's Sound, a second time, by W. Bayly, - - - - - 66 - -- -. . at'the Cape os Good Hope, a second time, by W. Bayly, 73, - - - . ... . at Resolution Bay, in the Marquesas, by W. Wales, ..81 - - -- at Point Venus, a second time, by ditto, 83 Observations on the Tides at Uliatea, by ditto, - - gQ Asronomical Observations at Tanna, one of the New Hebrides, by ditto, 97 ----- at Pudyoua, on the coas os New Caledonia, by ditto, - - - - - - -101 ditto at Queen Charlotte's Sound, a third time, by 105 a Asronomical
CONTENTS. Astronomical Observations at Christmas Sound, in Terra del Fuego , by W. Wales, - - - - - Page 113 -- - - at the Cape of Good Hope, a second time, by ditto, - - - - - 120 - at St. Helena, by ditto, - - 137 Observations on the dip of the Needle at the island of Ascension, by ditto, 138 Asronomical Observations at Fy al, one of the Azores, by ditto, - 139 --- for the Latitude, and the Longitude by the 'lime-keepers on board the Adventure, - - - 141 -__--- for the Longitude by the Lunar method, on board ditto, - - - - - 169 ------- for finding the Variation of the Compass on board ditto, - - - - - 179 Nautical Journal on board the Adventure, by W. Bayly, - 186 Meteorological ditto, by ditto, - - - 203 Astronomical Observations for the Latitude, and the Longitude by the Time-keepers, onboard the Resolution, - - - 223 Comparisons of the Time keepers with each other, - - 281 Astronomical Observations for the Longitude, by the Lunar Method, on board the Resolution, - - - - -287 Nautical Journal on board the Resolution, by W. Wales, - 309 Meteorological Journal, ,by ditto, - - - 335 Observations for finding the Variation, on board the Resolution, - 367 DIRECTIONS for placing the PLATES. Plate I. to face p: *34. Plate II. to face p. xii. of the Introduction. Plate III. to face p. 96. Plate IV. to face 346.
INTRODUCTION. T the time when the Voyage was first planned that gave hirth to the following Observations, it had long been the opinion of learned men, that there must be vast tracts of land, at that time undiscovered, towards the South Pole. The probability of this opinion induced his Majesty to sit out two ships, the Resolution and Adventure, to determine this interesting point in Geography, amongst many others, equally curious, although not altogether so important as this. But it is not to be supposed that this opinion had any other foundation than mere probability: The Mathematical, or Philosophical reasons, which had from time to time been offered to the Public, having no foundation in nature; and the notion which some persons have got concerning the necessity of a counterpoise, is so very unphilosophical, that I am much surprised how so many ingenious Gentlemen have happened to adopt it. It is well known to Mathematicians, that every body, while at rest, however irregular, will be in equilibria, when suspended on any line that passes through its center of gravity ; nor will the revolution of a body, thus circumstanced, about an axis, be disturbed hereby, if the irregularities lie in the direction of its axis of rotation, as they are supposed to do in the case before us : if, indeed, they lie in any other direction, the matter will be different; but even then they must be much greater than any mountains that we know of to cause a sensible aberration in the axis of the earth. If now, to an irregular mass of rigid matter, circumstanced as our earth is, there be added a quantity of matter perfectly fluid, it 8 is
I vi INTRODUCTION. is well known, that it will distribute itself into the vallies, or rather along those parts of the rigid matter which are nearest to the center of gravity, without any regard to the center of the mass ; and consequently, if there be not a sufficiency of the fluid matter to overflow and cover the whole, those parts will be last covered which are towards that part of the globe, or body, which is least dense; and this might be the cafe even if the globe was a perfect: sphere, without any irregularities in its surface. The same purpose might be effected, though perhaps in a more limited degree, merely by irregularities of the surface, even if the earth was every where equally dense. At the same time it is proper to observe, that, although there is no neceffity, yet it was highly probable, before this experiment was made, that the irregularities both of density and surface might be nearly equal in both hemispheres; and on that foundation alone, I believe, the Voyage was ordered to be undertaken. As soon as the Voyage was determined on, the Commiffioners of Longitude, ever attentive to the improvement of Science, came to a resolution of sending out two persons, one in each Ihip, to make such observations as appeared to them most conducive to the advancement of useful knowledge, and were pleased to appoint Mr. William Bayly, late assistant at the Royal Observatory, and myself, for that purpose; at the same time, furnishing us with every instrument necessary for the undertaking, of the best fort, and constructed by the most approved makers, a list of which follows. 1. A Portable Observatory. 2. An Astronomical Clock, made by Mr, Shelton. 3. An assistant Clock, made by Mr. Monk. 4. A Transit /
INTRODUCTION. vii 4. A Transit Instrument, made by the late Mr. Bird. 5. An Astronomical Quadrant, made by the same excellent artist. 6 . A Reflecting Telescope, of two feet focal length, made by the same. 7. An achromatic Refracting Telescope, of 34. feet, and triple object glass, made by Mr. Dollond. 8- An achromatic divided Object-glass,' micrometer to ditto, made by Mr. Dollond. 9. A Hadley's Sextant, made by the same. is. Another, made by Mr. Ramsden. 11. An Azimuth Compass, made by Mr. Adams. 12. A pair of Globes, made by ditto. 13. A Dipping Needle, made by Mr. Nairne. 14. A Marine Barometer, by ditto. 15. A Wind Gage, invented by Dr. bind of Edinburgh, and made by Mr. Nairne. 16. Two Portable Barometers, made by Mr. Burton. 17. Six Thermometers, made by ditto. 18. A Theodolite, -with a level, and a Gunter's Chain, made by the same- 19. An Apparatus for trying the heat of the sea-water at different depths. so. Two Time-keepers, one made by Mr. Larcum Kendall, on Mr. Harrison's principles, and the other by Mr. John Arnold. Mr. Bayley had a duplicate of each of the above instruments, excepting the Transit-instrument, which was to be used in common by
viii INTRODUCTION. by each of us ; and that both his Time-keepers were made by Mr. Arnold. The following account of these articles will not, I presume, be unacceptable. Of the Observatory. The Observatory was contrived by my associate Mr. W. Bayly, and is undoubtedly one of the most convenient portable Observatories that has yet been made. The upright sides consist of eight staves, AB, CD, Sac. (fee Plate II.) about two inches diameter, and five feet and an half long, which supported a circular ring, i, 2, 3,4, &c. to 21.0s eight feet diameter, and the covering, r, 7, 9, 10, Lee. to 21, s, />, of oiled canvass. The staves are of beach-wood, armed at the bottom with spikes, to stick into the ground, and at the top with small iron pins, fitted to holes which are made to receive them in the ring* The ring is composed of eight circular arches, of about three feet long, two inches broad, and an inch thick, made of beach-wood, and are readily put together, or taken asunder by means of strong iron plates, screwed fast with wood screws to the end of one arch, and by screws and nuts to the end of another, for the purpose of frequent screwing and unscrewing without danger of wearing out the holes, as would be the cafe with wood screws entering the wood itself. Into the outer edge of this ring are drove small staples, 1, 2, 3, 4, Sec. and to the upper edge of the canvass, answerable thereto, are sewed several small hooks, which being hooked, into these staples, serve to support the upper edge of the canvass, while its lower edge just reaches to the ground: The two parts of the canvass, 2, 1, 0, pi 9, <7, r, are supposed to be unhooked from the staples 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5, 6, 7, 8 respectively, and thrown back to shew the inside of the Observatory, and the manner of fixing up t lie Clock, to be described hereafter : B E is a brace of the fame fort
INTRODUCTION. . ix sort of wood, screwed fast to the top of the staff AB, by a screw at B, and to the bottom of the staff /)Cat £. These braces, from the top of one staff to the bottom of the next, kept the whole upright circular frame very steady. FGHIKLMN is another circular ring, exactly of the same dimensions and construction with the former, on which it rests: To this the roof of the Observatory is screwed by means of ten long screws, which pass through the ends of the rafters at F G H IK, &c. into iron nuts fixed in this upper ring for that purpose. The rafters MP, RP , IU, IxE , &c. are attached to the erown-piece PTU by hinges, as represented at X, and TJ ; and the two short rafters F NO, are attached to the two RP,'MP , also by hinges at 0, and By means of these hinges the roof is made to open or close like an umbrella, and of course, if disengaged from the circular ring F R 11, &c. will fold together, and may be packed up in a very small compass. The covering of the roof is of very thick canvas, many times painted, and comes down so far as to hang over at the eves about four inches. The crown-piece, PTU , is about eight inches in diameter, and covered with a circular piece of canvas like that the roof is covered with. An eye-bolt no passes through its center, and is fastened on the inside by the nuto. This eye-bolt is intended for the reception of the hook n , which is fastened to the cord m b g c d t pasting over a pulley at W, fixed in the top of the pole V Z. Towards the bottom of this pole there is fixed a levers h, by means of the clamp e f and its fellow on the opposite side, and the lever, turns on the iron bolt f. The cord m b c d passes through a hole c in the lever, and is drawn tight when the end h of the lever is turned upwards, and then made fast: Now if the end h of the lever be brought down towards L, and there fastened by means of the b becketj
X INTRODUCTION. becket, or endless cord i k, the roof of the Observatory will be drawn up from off the ring r, 2, 3, Sec. and may be turned round by twisting or untwisting of the cord, until the opening NOP §>^E is towards the fun, or any other object, of which an observation is wanted to be made. When the observation is completed* the lever may be released, and the roof let down again to rest with its whole weight on the lower ring, as it will then be less liable to be disturbed by the wind: There are also eight small staples on the inside edge of the lower ring 1, 2, 3, &c. and as many small hooks, corresponding to them, on the upper, or that to which the rafters of the roof are fastened. These hooks, when the roof is lowered down, are to be hooked into the staples, and the cord then drawn tight, to prevent, yet farther, the effect of the wind. The opening N, 0 P, is covered, when not in use, by the flap, or roll of spare canvas G S, which is of the fame fort, and painted in the fame manner, as that which covers the roof. The whole of this Observatory, except the three poles IV Z, IVX, and IV T, when taken down and packed up properly, is contained in a chest six feet and nine inches long, and about twenty inches square: The poles, which form the tripod, are of about fifteen feet long, and four inches diameter, may be laid amongst the spare booms of the ship, or if they should be thought too cumbersome there, may be cut out of the woods, or purchased for a trifle at any place where they are wanted. Of the Clocks. BOTH Clocks were made by Mr. Shelton, being furnished with compound pendulums of that fort usually called Gridiron Pendulums ; and they escaped dead seconds in the late Mr. Graham's manner. They were fixed up by means of an iron block and frame,
INTRODUCTION. xi frame, which is represented in Fig. z. Plate I. where AB CD is a flat block of cast iron, about three or four inches thick, two feet long, and 13 or 14 inches broad, weighing between three and four hundred pounds. This block was laid horizontally on four wooden piles shod with iron, and driven deep into the ground, where the foil admitted of it; and where it did not, was placed on the firm rock. E FG if is a frame of wrought iron, about an inch square, every where except at the top F G, where it is about three inches broad, and three-fourths of an inch thick, and it is screwed firmly to the block at E and Hb y the screws a a. IK and L M are two braces of wrought iron, an inch square, screwed firmly also to the block at I and is, by the screws n n, and to the frame E F G H at K and M by the screws 0 0. The bottom of the clock cafe rested on the flat horizontal surface IL E H, with its back against the flat bar FG; to which it was screwed fast by two strong screws, pasting through the back-board of the cafe, and the mortices S, S. This method of fixing up a clock on temporary occasions, was the invention of the very ingenious Mr. John Smeaton, F. R. 8. It has many advantages, as it may be set up in an hour's time, and may be effected in many situations, where the old method of letting down a post could not be made use of; particularly in rocky places, which are often the only eligible situations that can be found for observing near the sea-stiore ; it also affords an exceeding steady foundation, and is subject to no inconvenience, that I know off but the expansion of the frame E F G II and braces IK and L M, which I found would be sometimes so great as to lift the clock-case entirely off the block A B CD, and thereby render it loose, and subject to acquire motion from the momentum of the pendulum. This however may, I think, be completely remedied by having a cross
INTRODUCTION. xii cross bar towards the bottom of the iron frame, as represented by the dotted lines be, de, to which the clock-case may be screwed fast in the same manner as at the top, by strong screws and nuts pasting through the back board and the mortices There will indeed one inconvenience arise from this mode of fixing the bottom of the cafe, namely, that the clock must be set perpendicular to the horizon, entirely by the driving of the piles on which the iron block lies, and which will be very troublesome and very tedious to do, and of course take up much time, which in the cases where this apparatus will be most wanted, is often extremely precious; and on that account I would propose that there should be two strong arms fixed to the cross bar be, de, instead of the mortices projecting forward, at such a distance as to admit the clock-case freely between them. In each of these arms should be a pretty strong screw; and by easing one of these screws, and tightening the other, the clock might very readily be brought perfectly upright, after the iron block had been laid nearly horizontal; and when it is so, both screws may be made to press against the cafe with equal and a moderate force. Another screw might be added in the iron bar bede, if thought proper, to set it upright the other way ; but this is not so necessary. As neither of these remedies were thought of at the time Captain Cook set out on his present voyage, it was thought advisable to try other methods; and that represented in Plate II. was made choice of to be used by the Gentlemen who make the Astronomical Observations in the course of the voyage which he is now gone upon ; the first hint of which, except what is to be met with in the Appendix to my Lord Mulgrave's Voyage towards the North Pole, was from a drawing of Mr, Bayly's* presented to the Commissioners +
SZerLW -ML iSWifl W MM ZKrO' ig WtmwSgl is?'- mm mm MiMH W& mm "::! iMiuin'ii'ljL MM WWW W wMMm. MM MKsx- KM OZK IBS I > '{s\ , |j|pSy SMS wg&aes. MK1 ZM-A

INTRODUCTION. ■ xiii missioners of Longitude, and by them put into the hands of Mr. Arnold, watch-maker, to execute, and who made some deviations 'from the original drawing, which he thought was for the better. In the engraving, p u , as may be necessary, to bring the Clock-case to stand perpendicular. Two of those pieces, o xi, and £ ©, are screwed to the two fides of the Clock- case, very near the front, and just below the rising-board, and the third r E, directly in the middle of the back-board, at exactly the same height with the other two. 2 e, XI *?, and p A, are three horizontal braces of mahogany about two inches square, morticed fast into the pieces r E, Xl, and £ 0, at <T, XI, and A, and force pretty hard against the cafe of the Clock at e, and p.j that is, 2e directly against the middle of the back-board, and Xl^, Ap against the two fore-corners of the cafe ; the ends n and p of these two last being cut in an angle exactly to fit them. The case of the Clock, particularly the back-board, is made very strong, and is but just of a height sufficient to contain the pendulum. Before I quit this subject, it may not be amiss to take notice of some very extraordinary irregularities, which happened in the going of the Clocks, as well as to bring into one point of view their several rates of going at the different places where they were set up. c The
XIV INTRODUCTION. The Clock B, which, I believe, has not been remarked in the body of the Work, gained 3 ",03 a day on syderial time from March 28th to April ist, 1772, when fixed up at the Royal Observatory in Greenwich-Park, to pieces of wood let into the wall of the Observatory; that is, in the manner which the Transit Clock at that place is fixed up : and the Clock C lost o",Z7Z a day on syderial time from March 25th to March 28th, 1772, when fixed up at the same place, and in the same manner. The mean vibrations of the pendulum were each way. This Clock, with the fame length of pendulum, lost 20"^. a day on syderial time, from July ist to the gth, 1772, at Drake's Island in Plymouth Sound, latitude 50° 21% N., and longitude 4 0 i 6'4 W. of Greenwich ; and the pendulum vibrated i° 50' each way. At Fonchiale, in Madeira, latitude 32 0 33',! N,, longitude 17 0 n'i. W., B lost 36",6, and C 1' 15" a day on syderial time, from July 30th to August ist, 1772: the pendulum of B vibrated i° 4c f each way, and that of C i° 53'. At the Cape of Good Hope, latitude 33 0 ss'x longitude 18 0 23'4-E., E lost i'15",43, and C 1' 27",35, a day on syderial time, from November ad to the 14th, 1772 : the mean vibrations of the former were i° 3/4, and those of the latter i° 43'-!. At Dusky Bay in New Zealand, lajtitude 45 0 47W S., longitude 166° 18' E., B gained 4",066 on syderial time, from April 5th to the 21 st, 1773 ; and its mean vibrations were i° 35' each way. At Queen Charlotte's Sound in New Zealand, latitude 41 0 6' S., longitude 174 0 i8'i E., C lost 1' 29",003 a day on syderial time, from April
INTRODUCTION. xv April 20th to May 20th, 1773 ; and its mean vibrations were i° 52' each way. This Clock went here with greater regularity from day to day than it had done at any other place, except that some time in the night between the 14th and 15th of May, it seems to have stopped exactly 12", which is a most extraordinary circumstance, especially when we consider Mr. Bayly's remark on that head, p. 36. and no way, that I know of, to be accounted for. At Point Venus in Otaheite, latitude 17 0 29'^ 8-, longitude 210° 25' E., B lost 1^28",42, and C 2' io" 6 g a day on fyderial time, from August 27th to the 31st, 1773 : the pendulum of the former vibrated i °'' 39't and that of the latter i° 46'i. each way. At Queen Charlotte's Sound, B lost 21",116 a day, ffom November 6th to the 22d, and vibrated i° 38' each way: and C lost at the fame place i' 8^,47 a day, from December 7th to the 15th, 1773 ; and its pendulum vibrated i° 46' each way. The ball of the pendulum was now about 7 feet above the sea at low-water mark r when here before, it was about 844 feet above it. At the Cape of Good Hope this Clock lost 1' 36",01 6 a day on fyderial time, from March 23d to the 28th, when Mr. Bayly removed the Observatory and Clock to another part of the garden ; after which, from the 28th to April 10th, 1774, it lost at the rate of 1' 17",71 on fyderial time. I have remarked in p. 76. that Mr. Bayly says, he is absolutely certain no alteration happened int the length of the pendulum; and I make no doubt but that he examined it with the utmost attention: but if some alteration in its length did not take place, and which, I think, might possibly happen, without his being able to discover it, it is utterly impossible to account for so great and sudden a change. The pendulum vibrated 1® 46' each way. The
XVI INTRODUCTION. The Clock B lost i' 22",64 a day on fyderial time at Otaheite, latitude 17 0 29*4 8., and longitude 210° 25' E., from April 23d to May gth, 1774; but I here reject its loss between April 30th and May 1 st, as it appears to have lost exactly i' more on that day than on any other; a circumstance I cannot account for properly , as I never, that I know of, left the cafe or face of the Clock unlocked. There is, however, little doubt but that some •witty Gentleman or other found means to open it, and put the Clock a minute back, I suppose, to try whether or no the Astronomer could find it out. The vibrations of the pendulum were t° 35' each way until April 30th, on which day they dropped to i° 30', and after that decreased gradually, so that on May 7th the vibrations were no more than i° 15'. I could find no visible cause for this alteration ; the Clock was not more than 4 down: however, I wound it up, and in a few hours it increased its vibrations again to i° 35', and continued to vibrate over that arch until it was taken down on May 10th. On setting it up a second time at Queen Charlotte's Sound in New Zealand, I had much trouble in getting it to go at all, as most of its parts, and particularly the steel rods of the pendulum, were covered with rust. It lost at the rate of 15",58 a day on fyderial time, from October 22d to November 5th, 1774, and went pretty regularly after I did get it to go. I here added fresh oil,< and its vibrations were then i° 3/4 each way. At Christmas Sound in Terra del Fuego, latitude SS° 22 ' S., longitude 289° 58^ E., B gained 36",52 a day on fyderial time, between December 23d and 26th, 1774; and the mean vibrations of the pendulum were i° 3/4 each way. This was the highest latitude that I had an opportunity of trying it in. March 23d,
INTRODUCTION. xvii March 23, 1775, I set B up a second time at the Cape of Good Hope, and from that time to April 23, it lost at the rate of 42",207 a day on Syderial time: the pendulum vibrated i° 37^ each way from the perpendicular until April 9, and after that time i° 40 s . These matters are brought yet nearer into one point of view in the following table. Places. Clock B gains or loses on Syderial Time. Latitude. Longitude. Time. ✓ " / /✓ ✓ // Greenwich Madeira Cape of Good Hope Ditto Dusky Bay Point Venus Ditto Queen Charlotte's Sound Ditto Terra del Fuego + 0 5>°3 - O 36,6 - I I 5 " 43 ; -0 42,21 4-0 4,07 - 1 28,42 -1 22,64 -O 21,12 - O 15,58. 4 -o 36,52 51 28* N. 32 334 N. ;33 554 S. 45 474 S. ;"7 294 S. >41 6 S. 55 22 S. O O 17 Il4W. 18 234 E. 166 18 E. 210 254. E. 174 184. E. 289 584. March 1772. July 1772. ; November 1772, ! April 1775. April 1773. ; August 1773. l May 1774. ; November 1773: | October 1774. December 1774. Latitude. Longitude. " " j 51 28-J- N. 50 2 i4- N. I 32 334 N. ■j O O I 4 164-w. 17 1x4: W. j r j 33 551 S. l8 234 : E.j J41 6 S. 174 x 84 E.| 127 294 s. 2X0 25 E. 1 Places. Clock C loses on Syderial Time. Greenwich -0 0,37 Drake's Island -O 20,62 Madeira - I X5,0 Cape of Good Hope -I 27,35 Ditto -I 36,02 Ditto - I 17,71 Queen Charlotte's Sound -I 29,0 Ditto -I 8,47 Point Venus - 2 10,6g Time. March 1772. July 1772. July 1772. August 1773. On reconsidering the circumstance of the Clock's different rates of going at the Cape of Good Hope in November 1772 and April 1775, I am rather inclined to alter my opinion, (fee p. 131.) and to d conclude
xviii INTRODUCTION. conclude that I made a mistake in setting the pendulum to its proper length, either when here in November 1772, or at Dusky Bay in New Zealand, after which time it was never altered j especially as the difference corresponds nearly to that which would arise from a whole revolution of the nut which supports the ball of the pendulum, namely 28", or 2 9", increased by the same quantity that the Clock had gone faster on being set up a second time both at Point Venus and Queen Charlotte's Sound : and it appears farther, by comparing its rate of going at the Cape with its rate at Madeira, which is nearly in the same latitude, that if this was the case, the mistake must have happened on setting it up in November 1772. Now if this correction be allowed, this Clock will have agreed with itself as near, perhaps, as must ever be expected for any clock to do; especially when set up at such distant times, and put away, in the intervals, in damp and improper places, as will ever be the cafe on board ships, unless a proper place be made and fitted up on purpose for it: and this I think might readily be done on board any ihip; in which cafe, it may not be useless to add, that this place must not be near either side of the ship, nor near the fore-part of it; and must be well lined with strong painted canvas, and over that with thick baize. A space of 20 inches, by 15 broad, and 4-p* feet high would be fully sufficient for the purpose. The assistant clock had a simple pendulum, whose rod was of white deal, and was always adjusted so that it would beat with the Astronomical Clock without sensible deviation for several minutes together ; it shewed only minutes and seconds, was wound up in the common way that 24 hour clocks generally are, by pulling at the string, and constructed to give a very loud beat, and to strike with great exactness at the end of every minute, for the convenience
INTRODUCTION. xix convenience of catching the second with more certainty in observing. The loudness of the beat is of great use when the wind is high; or when, on account of any other noise or disturbance, the Astronomical Clock cannot be heard ; and was particularly useful to us, whose Observatories stood generally on the sea-shore, where the roaring of the surf seldom permitted us to hear the Astronomical Clock all the time it was going. Of the Transit Instrument . THIS Instrument being now too well known to require a general description, I shall only just mention some particulars which are peculiar to that we made use of, and the manner of fixing it up. The object-glass of the telescope, which was achromatic, was of 3^ feet focus, and aperture 34 inches: it magnified about 50 times. The axis rested on two angular pieces of bell- metal, which were attached to two strong plates of brass, about six inches square; and these plates were let into two posts of Riga timber, six inches by eight, and screwed firmly to them by strong screws which came quite through the posts from the opposite side to that which the brass plates were let into. The angular pieces of bell-metal were made to flide on the brass plates, one in a vertical, and the other in an horizontal direction, by means of very fine steel screws, in order to adjust the Instrument, and bring it into the plane of the meridian. The posts had each of them a double tenon at the bottom, which fitted into two double mortices in a fill of the fame timber, 10 inches by six or seven, and five feet in length, and they were braced together about three feet above this fill by a horizontal brace, and at the angles by cross braces. When
XX INTRODUCTION. When the Instrument was to be set up, a hole was dug five feet long, about 15 or 16 inches wide, and three feet deep, in a direction at right angles to the meridian; and the posts and fill, thus braced together, let carefully down into it, the Instrument was then put into its place, and directed to a mark which had before been determined to be in the meridian by means of the Azimuth Compass, after allowing for the variation, by moving the frame a little one way or other in the hole as might be required, and after that, the axis was made horizontal by hanging on the spirit level intended for adjusting the Instrument, and raising one end of the fill, or lowering the other, as was most convenient, until both ends of the axis were of the fame height. The hole was then filled with earth and stones intermixed, and well rammed in, taking great care, in this operation, not to twist, or force the frame out of the plane of the prime vertical, by frequently putting the Instrument into its place, trying the level, and directing the telescope to the mark. This being done, the nicer adjustments of the Instrument were made by means of the screws which govern the two angular pieces of bell-metal on which it rests; and I never found that the Instrument, thus set up, would vary materially in its position. Of the Ajlronomkal Quadrant, THIS instrument has been so well, and so fully described by the Rev. Mr. Malkelyne, Astronomer Royal, in his instructions relative to the observation of the Transit of Venus (See Nautical Almanac for 1769), that little remains to be said on this head. It may not however be amiss to mention a circumstance or two wherein my instrument appears to have differed from that which Mr. Mafkelyne* described. And first, the arch of excess of my Quadrant, or that which
INTRODUCTION. XXI which is intended for trying the line of collimation by observations \ of stars near the zenith, was not numbered i°, a 0 , 3°, &c. from the o, or beginning of the divisions of the quadrantal arch, in which cafe it would have shewn the zenith distance of objects; but 89 0 * 88°, 87°, &c. By this means the altitude, instead of the zenith distance, is obtained, and the Vernier's divisions, and the seconds shewn by the micrometer-fcrew, are read off exactly in the fame manner that they are on the quadrantal arch. Moreover, the quadrant, which I used, had an additional plumb-line, which, in making observations of stars near the zenith, was to be suspended, by means of an apparatus provided for that purpose, from the horizontal side of the quadrant; and made to bisect a very fine point on the arch, to the right hand of 0 , or the beginning of the divisions of the quadrant, at the same time that the common plumb- line, or that which is generally used, bisects the two points which are on the arch and central plate of the instrument, and in a line parallel to that which passes through the center, and first division of the arch; after which, it is manifest, that the plumb- line which is commonly used, and which would now be disturbed by the telescope, may be taken away, and the additional one used in its stead. By this contrivance, the errors, which might have been committed in laying off two additional points, are entirely avoided, and all observations taken, in reality, from the same plumb-line. These might, very probably, be improvements, which Mr. Bird had afterwards made to this most excellent instrument. The three next articles had nothing particular in their construction, and are all now so well known as to need no description. I shall therefore only add, that' the two refracting telescopes were e most
INTRODUCTION. ■xxii most exquisite ones, and furnished with moveable polar axes, for the convenience of adapting them to any latitude whatsoever. Of the Hadleys Sextants, Of these we had each of us two; one made by Mr. Dollond, with his new apparatus for adjusting the back horizon-glass, and the other by Mr. Ramsden. The latter was made by order of the Royal Society, in 1768, and I had before used it in my Voyage to and from Hudson's Bay, and knew its value. Its radius was iy inches, and it was cut out of one solid plate of hammered brass, about one-ninth of an inch thick, leaving only the frame and cross-braces of about one inch and one-third broad, and these were supported on the back with perpendicular, or, as they are usually called, edge-bars, screwed very firmly thereto by screws, which passed through the frame of the Sextant into the bars themselves. The index also was very broad and strong, and stiffened by a perpendicular bar, that was screwed fast on its upper side. The massiveness of these bars and frame rendered the instrument rather heavy; but I have never met with one that preserved its figure, plane, and adjustments, so well as this did ; and these properties are so very essential, that I think they should never be given up, or even run the least risk of having impaired, for the trifling consideration of reducing the weight of the instrument a few ounces, which I never found in the least inconvenient, after I became used to it. This instrument had some disadvantages, which are now generally remedied, such as the smallness of the horizon- glass ; and, what is much worse, that glass, small as it was, did not reflect; a full field of view when the index was put back to its greatest
INTRODUCTION. xxiii greatest angle. But, notwithstanding these, and some few other small imperfections, I esteem it, on the whole, to be the best instrument of the kind that I have ever handled. The Sextant made by Mr. Dollond was of the fame size, and constructed with edge-bars like that of Mr. Ramsden's, but less massive. However, the additional apparatus rendered it equally heavy ; a fault, which, I have observed above, is of small moment, provided that the materials, and mode of putting them together, are such as will support it properly; but which, I cannot say, was altogether the cafe with this instrument; for it was very subject to bend, when put into different positions. The index also was very liable to spring in the direction of the angle measured, for want of being sufficiently stiff; and the horizon-glaffes wanted stability, and were subject, without great care indeed, to alter their adjustment, even in the short space necessary to make an observation ; so that I was obliged to examine their several errors both before and after observing, and to take a mean of the two results. At the same time, it is but justice to observe, that there were so many ingenious improvements and contrivances added to it, as would, had they been put together with more stability, have rendered it almost invaluable. But, as I scarce know where to begin, or how to describe these improvements, without giving a general history of the instrument, from its invention to the present time, I must beg the Reader's indulgence for this digression, and it may not perhaps be unentertaining, if 1 add something concerning the first application of Astronomical Instruments to Navigation, as well as enumerate the different forts that have come successively into use, and the improvements that*have from time to time been made in them before the invention of this most noble, and extensively useful instrument; and especially as what I have to offer on that head will, 1 * 4 on
+■ a ft* A • , *xiv INTRODUCTION. on account of my want of time to consult a greater number of Authors, be comprised in a small compass. I have not been able to meet with the least hint of any Astro- mical Instrument being used at sea before the latter end of the 15th century j about which time, as Jo. Pet. Maffeius tells us in his Histor. Indie. Martin de Bohemia, a disciple of Regiomontanus , recommended the Astrolabe for taking altitudes on board a ship; but, whether this was then put in practice, does not appear; and it seems much to be doubted, whether the cross-staff, which was invented about that time, or very soon after, was not the first Astronomical Instrument used at sea: this at least is certain, that all the old writers, whom I have met with, speak of the cross-staff \s a very ancient instrument, except John Werner of Nuremberg, and who, as far as I can find, is the first person that has described it; but it does not appear to me, from what he there fays, that he was the inventor, but rather that he looked on it as an instrument in some measure then known, and he recommends it to seamen, as proper for observing the distance of the Moon from the Sun, or a Star, in order to determine the Longitude at sea. Werners book was printed in 1514; and I find the same instrument again recommended, and for the same purpose, by Peter Apian , in his Cosmography, which, by the date of his preface, appears to have been written in, or before the year 1524. About this time the method of finding the Longitude at sea by observations of the Moon's distance from the Sun or Stars is mentioned by several authors, and particularly by Gemma Prisms , in his Principia AJlronom'ue et Cosmographies, printed in 1530, who also mentions the doing of it by means of a Clock or Time-keeper. He was also, if I mistake not, the first person who added three transoms' to the cross-staff, which at
INTRODUCTION. XXV at first was made with one cross only, and on that account was fifths very inconvenient; for either the staff must then be of an enormous length, to admit of measuring small angles, and of course very unmanageable, or else the divisions, especially towards 90 degrees, must be too minute to admit of any tolerable accuracy. This was about the middle of the sixteenth century; but it is not very certain by whom this was first done, for a cross-staff of this kind was described about the same time both by Michael Coignet , a native of Antwerp, in his Injirudl. 11011*0. des points phis excellents & necejsaires tou- chant /'art de Naveger, and also by Waeghener, a Dutchman, at that time so famous for drawing and publishing charts, that even to this day a book, or volume of charts, is, by our seamen, called a Waeghener. In the year 1542 Peter Nonius , in his Treatise de Crepusculis , published the method of dividing, by means of several concentric circles, described on the face of the instrument, and dividing each of them into a different number of equal parts; as for example, the outermost circle of the quadrant was divided into 90 equal parts, or degrees, the next into 89, and the next into 88, &c.; so that in every observation, the index of the quadrant must cross one or other of these circles very near a division, from whence the degrees and minutes contained in that arch might be had by computation. But this troublesome method soon gave place to that by diagonal divisions, which method was invented about the same time, and applied to the cross-staff, andother instruments, by Richard Chanceler, an Englishman, and a most skilful artist. I assert this on the authority of Thomas Digges, Esq; who, in an ingenious treatise, published in the year 1573, concerning the New Star which about that time had appeared in Cafsiopea's Chair, describes a cross-staff with which he had made his observations thereon, adding many curious obser- f vat ion 5
Xxvi INTRODUCTION. vations on the use of this instrument, among which is a method of correcting the error arising from the excentricity of the eye ; and after mentioning this method of dividing very particularly, adds, " I freely confess that this method of dividing the staff into many sensible parts was not invented by me; but bad been long used in England by many skilful mathematicians. The first who used it, as I am well informed, was Richard Chanceler, a most skilful and ingenious mathematical instrument-maker, and whose name I more readily publish, as he is now dead, and has left behind him no memorial of his excellency, except some instruments fabricated with the greatest art and exactness, and the sweetest memory of his usefulness and skill in the minds of a few mathematicians yet alive." I have been thus particular, because Tycho Brahœ , at p. 403 of his works, published at Franckfort in 1648, giving an account of the fame star, takes notice of this passage of Mr. Digges's, and adds, " But when I studied at LeipJic about twenty-eight years ago, I used a cross-staff thus divided, which I had out of the shop of that excellent mathematician Homelius , by favour of his servant Bartholomew Sc&ultet: but whence Homelius had this, or whether he himself invented it, is with me uncertain." It is plain, from the very words here made use of, that Tycho meant to dispute the claim set up by Digges, for his deceased friend, to the invention ; but I think with little probability of success: for Tycho did not go to Leigsic before the year 1362, or 1563, as we learn from the account of his life, written by Gajsendus ; and Tycho himself, in his epistle to Chri- Jlopher Tj>othman , written in 1587, and printed at Uranibourg in 1596, fays he was then about seventeen years old; which, as he was born in the year 1346, must have been in 1563; that is, about ten years only before Mr. Digges wrote. Now Digges expressly fays, that the inventor
INTRODUCTION. xxvii inventor was then dead, that the method had been long known and practised in England, and that he himself did not remember the first invention; but had only been informed of it, which could scarcely have been the case, if so useful an invention, had been made no longer before than ten or twelve years. In the same work Tycho tells us, that he had applied this fort of divisions to quadrants, sextants, &c. and takes notice that it is not accurately true, in these instruments* when the circles are drawn at equal distances: he also gives a method of correcting that error, by means of circular diagonals, which, if continued, would all pass through the center of the quadrant. And lastly, he hesitates not to prefer them to the Nonian method of division, described above; which was very troublesome, subject to greater errors, and not applicable-to instruments capable of being used at sea. This method of describing diagonals was the invention of Joannes Fes'- rerius % a most industrious and accurate artist of that time; and it was afterwards done in a more elegant, and equally accurate manner, by our truly ingenious countryman Dr. Hooke, as may be seea. in his animadversions on the Machina Cœlejles of Heudius. In the mean time, many ingenious attempts were made to improve the Nonian method of dividing, by different persons, and particularly by Jacobus Curtius , vice-chancellor to the emperor Rodulphus the second, and the great patron of Tycho with that emperor, as may be seen at large in the works of and ctLw/sv, published between the years 1580 and i590, and which at length led the way to that most excellent one, now universally in use, and first published to the world by Peter Vernier , a native of the Tranche Compte , in a small tract, entitled La Conjtruttion et IN sage du Quadrant notrveau v > printecf,
Jtxviii INTRODUCTION. aLavK*-* m i>4 printed at Brussels in 1631. In the preface to this publication Vernier claims the invention as his own, and very justly observes, that by this method, minutes are easily distinguished in quadrants of three inches radius, the truth of which I have myself been often convinced of in instruments of Mr. Ramsden's making. The fore-staff and astrolabe appear to have been the only instruments that were used at sea before the latter end of the sixteenth century, about which time the back-stass/as it was then called, on account of the observer's standing with his back to the fun, began much to be made use of. This instrument was invented by the celebrated Captain John Davis, who gave name to the Straits which separate West Greenland from America, and was by him first described, in a little book called the Seaman's Secrets, published in 1594; but this book I have not been able to meet with; however, there is a description of the instrument, together with a representation thereof, given by Adrian Metius , in his AJlronomia Institution printed in 1605; and afterwards in his tract; De Arte Navigandi , published at Franckfort in 1624; also in his Doffrinœ Sphericœ, lib. 5. published at the same place, in 1630. Originally this instrument had but one arch; namely, that on which the sight-vane slides, and the fhade-vane was fixed on a straight rod, morticed into the upper side of the radius of the instrument, at a greater distance from the center, or horizon-vane, than the arch itself: but it did not long retain that form ; for about the year i6co, or -soon after, the arch was extended up to 90°, partly below, and partly above the radius, and the sliade-vane fixed on that, to any proposed, even degree that was found most convenient; and in this state it was generally known by the name of the bowt It was nor, however, many years before it under- x went
INTRODUCTION. XXIX went another alteration, and received its present form. For the shade-vane being then placed at a great distance from the hori- zon-vane, the penumbral shade became so extensive, that neither its beginning, end, or center, could be judged of with any tolerable degree of certainty ; and what was yet worse, if the fun did not shine very bright indeed, the shadow could not be seen at all: it was therefore deemed necessary to lessen the radius of that part of the arch on which the shade-vane is fixed, in order to obtain a more distinct, and stronger shadow. It is not now known to whom we owe these improvements: some think they were made by the inventor himself; but this I much doubt. The last improvement that was made to this instrument, at least of any consequence, was the substitution of a lens, whose focal length was just equal to the radius of the lesser arch, instead of the shade-vane. This, although in itself so simple, was a very considerable improvement to the instrument ; for the spot of light, formed on the horizon-vane in the focus of the glass, will be bright enough to be seen very distinctly, when the sun is so very faint that the least trace of the shadow from the vane cannot be discerned. It is said positively, at p. 250, vol. i. of Sir Jonas Moore's New System, that this was the invention of Mr. Flamsted, the first Astronomer-Royal ; but others fay it was contrived by the late Dr. Edmund Halley, and adapted to that instrument, in his voyage to the Island of St. Helena in 1677. It is ' not improbable that both might think of it. These three instruments, namely the astrolabe, fore-staff, and Davis's quadrant, underwent many other alterations, and appeared under a great variety of shapes that are not taken notice of above. . From the first came the semi-circle, the fea-rings, and sea-quadrant ; the second produced the demi-cross, Mr. Hood's staff, and g some
xxx INTRODUCTION. some others; and the last, the plough, Elton's, and many other quadrants : none of which remained long in use, and very few deserved to have been used at all. I come now to relate the inventions of instruments for measuring angles by reflection, the first hint of which was, I am firmly persuaded, given by that truly ingenious and indefatigable mechanician, Dr. Hooke, about the year 1681; as appears from Dr. Birch's History of the Royal Society, vol. iv. p. 102, and also from his Life and Posthumous Works, p. xxiii and 503, published by R. Waller, Esq; in 1703; but the angles, in his instrument, being measured by one reflection only, rendered it not so convenient for sea purposes as it would otherwise have been. The next who published any thing on this head, was John Hadley, Esq; Vice-president of the Royal Society, and at that time famous for having perfected, and brought into use, the reflecting telescope. This Gentleman, on the 13th of May 1731, presented to the Royal Society an instrument constructed in pretty near the same form that they now are, and also a description of the same; in which he gave a very full account both of the theory and manner of using this instrument: But although Mr. Hadley was the first who published, yet it is no less certain that the incomparable Sir Isaac Newton had long before that time invented an instrument of this kind, differing little from that of Mr. Kadley's, except in the manner of applying the telescope. But this, like many other of Sir Isaac's discoveries, was not publickly known till several years afterwards ; namely, on the death of Dr. Halley in 1742, when a paper, in Sir Isaac's own handwriting, containing a description of the instrument, was found amongst the papers of that gentleman; and it was published, together with a drawing of the instrument, in N°. 463 of the Philosophical \
INTRODUCTION. XXXI sophical Transactions for the year 1742. As there was no date to this paper, the exact time of Sir Isaac's discovery cannot now be ascertained : there is not, however, the least doubt of its being long prior to Mr. Hadley's in 1731, as Sir Isaac Newton died in 1727, and for some years before, had not thought much of these things ; it is therefore matter of much surprize that Dr. Halley should not recollect, and produce this paper of Sir Isaac's, when Mr. Hadley's was publicly read ; and thereby secure to his, then lately deceased, and ever to be admired friend, the prior invention of this most excellent instrument, to which he had, without doubt, an incontestable right. It is also most probable that Dr. Halley could have decided whether or not Sir Isaac's thought was prior to Dr. Hooke's in 1681, as Mr. Stone will have it in his Appendix to the Translation of Lion's Instruments ; where he fays, " The first of these instruments for taking the moon's distance from the fun, was invented long ago by Sir Isaac Newton, as appears in a paper of Sir Isaac's own hand-writing, found amongst those of the late Dr. Halley; and the very instrument itself, that Sir Isaac either made, or caused to be made, so long ago as when Dr. Halley went about making the catalogue of the stars in the Southern hemisphere, which was in the year 1672, was not long ago to be seen at Mr. Heath's in the Strand." But little dependence can be placed on what he has here advanced. That an instrument of this kind may have some time been made by Sir Isaac's direction, is very probable, but not at the time here mentioned: for in the first place, Dr. Halley did not set out for Saint Helena until the latter end of 1676 ; that is, at least four years after the time mentioned by Stone : and it is almost as certain, that when he did go, he had no instrument like this with him; because in his Tract entitled Catalogum Stdlarum Aufiralium , published after his return, in 1679, 2nd which is now before me,
XXX11 INTRODUCTION.- me, he gives a list of the instruments that he was provided with on that occasion, in which no instrument of the kind appears ; and it is scarcely to be credited that he would leave out of the catalogue an instrument which he must have found so useful, and that had been invented by so great a man, expressly on that occasion, and for the purpose of observing the moon's distance from the fun and stars, if any such instrument had at that time existed ; and more especially, as it is well known that the Doctor had always that method of finding the longitude much .at heart, and he repeatedly mentions it in this publication *. If this instrument was ever made at all for Dr. Halley, it is most probable that it was done about the time when he went, in the Paramore Pink, to observe the variation of the compass ; that is, in the years 1698, 1699, and 1700: although I cannot help thinking that if he had then had any instrument of the sort, he would have left some account of its success in his journals, which, as far as I can find, he has not done. The principle on which this most excellent instrument is founded, is so natural and obvious, that no less than five persons have come to my knowledge, exclusive of Dr. Hooke, who used but one reflection, that have invented and made it, independent of one another; and that nearly in the same form. After Sir Isaac Newton and Mr. Hadley, or rather before the latter, Mr. Thomas Godfrey of Philadelphia, invented a quadrant to measure angles by reflec- * Since writing the above, I have been informed that at the time when Mr. Hadley's paper was read, Dr. Halley did declare he had one of Sir Isaac Newton's, describing an instrument similar to Mr. Hadley's, and which was given to him in 1700, or 1701; but that he did not then know where to find it. - 3 tion.
INTRODUCTION. xxxiii tion, which was sent to sea about the latter end of the year 1730 ; but I cannot find with what success, nor yet in what manner ut was constructed, whether he used two reflections or only one. The next, in point of time, was the late Joseph Harris, Esq; sometime Warden of the Mint, and who, as I have been very credibly informed, invented an instrument of this sort, without knowing that any thing of the kind had been done before. And, lastly, it in- contestably appears, from several letters to the late Rev. Mr. Rown- ing, that the same thing was again done, about the years 1752 or j 753, by Mr. George Holroyd, a very ingenious mechanician, then of the city of York, but now of Great Queen-street, Lincoln's- Inn-Fields, together with some ingenious improvements, which shall be mentioned hereafter. But, notwithstanding these inventions of private gentlemen, which were laid aside as soon as the respective authors came to know what had been done by others, who had gone before them, few or no attempts were made towards improving the construction of this instrument from the time of its discovery by Mr. Hadley, until after the year 1745, about which time his patent ended; and the only contest among the generality of instrument-makers, after it got into their hands, was to try who could make it for the least money ;■ which, it will readily be conceived, did not add much to its accuracy. Indeed, to such a deplorable state was this most excellent instrument reduced about t,he year 1750, that M. De la Cattle allures us, in his Ephemerides des Mouvemens Celejles for the years 1755 to 1765, two persons, observing at the same time, with two of the best quadrants that they had, and with the greatest care, would frequently differ 6 , 7, and even 8 minutes, in the fun's altitude. We may indeed conclude, that either these instruments were made in France, h or
XXXIV INTRODUCTION. or that proper care had not been taken in procuring them from good makers in England ; for at all times instruments, sufficiently exact for observing altitudes, were to be had here, either from Mr. Jackson, who had made them for Mr. Hadley, under his patent or, after his decease, from Mr. Bird. The first persons, that I know of, who applied this quadrant to the actual measuring of distances, were Dr. Bradley, then Astronomer Royal at Greenwich, and Capt. John Campbell of the Royal Navy. The latter, about the year 1747, having, for his own amusement, measured the distances of several fixed stars with a quadrant of Jackson's making, shewed them to Dr. Bradley, who found them to correspond very exactly with their true distance in the heavens : and after this time, those gentlemen frequently made observations of the moon's distance from the fun and stars, and also of stars from one another, in company at Greenwich. In the course of these transactions, Dr. Bradley shewed Capt. Campbell an instrument, which had been contrived on purpose for making these observations by Mr. Hadley, and which was something like the Newtonian form ; only the small speculum was made to flide in a grove, so as to stand either to the right or left of the great one, for the convenience of measuring the moon's distance from objects on both sides of her, without turning the plane of the quadrant downwards, as is now done, and which at that time was thought very inconvenient. Dr. Bradley had also by this time greatly improved Dr. Halley's Lunar Tables, and began to entertain great hopes of effecting thereby the so much wilhed-for method of finding the longitude at sea, by observations of the moon's distance from the sun and fixed stars ; and the rather, as Mr. Bird had now begun to apply himself to improve the Hadley's Quadrant, in which,
INTRODUCTION. XXXV which, the principal defect, then complained of, was its bending when inclined out of a vertical position ; and he succeeded so well, that in the year 1750, the late ingenious Mr. Benjamin Robins made those observations with great success, in his voyage to the Hast Indies, with-quadrants of only 7 inches radius. The illustrious Sir Isaac Newton had, long before, laid the foundation of the Lunar theory in his Philosophies Naturalis Principia Mathematica : and about this time, many learned persons, both at home and abroad, turned their thoughts, either towards explaining and reducing that theory into tables, or to the-making of observations for establishing those points which theory alone could not give ; as well as for perfecting and examining the tables after they were made: for experience had by this time abundantly shewn, that accurate tables were not to be expected from theory alone. Amongst those who have exerted their talents this way, we may particularize the Rev. Dn Bradley and Mr. Thomas Simpson at home; and the celebrated Euler, Clairaut y Mayer, D'Alembert , Walnv- Jley, and many others, abroad. Of those who applied themselves to the practical part, none did so much as our countryman Dr. Bradley, whose skill, accuracy, and assiduity in the making of observations, undoubtedly left all his contemporaries far behind; but it must be owned, on the other hand, that the foreign mathematicians far outstripped us in the business of theory; owing, no doubt, to the diligence with which they have cultivated the modern method of analysis. Amongst those, none have distinguissied themselves more than Messrs. Euler, Clairaut , and Mayer ; and if the two former have, in some respects, shewn greater depths of mathematical knowledge, the last has been much more happy in a skilful arrangement of his tables, for the ease and expedition-of computation. In•
XXXVI INTRODUCTION. In consequence hereof, M. Euler published his Lunar Tables in the Almanac AJlronomique , printed at Btrlin for the year 1750; M. Clalraut' s Tables came out in the year 1752, in answer to the Prize Question, which had been proposed by the Imperial Academy of Petersburgh in 1750 j and M. Mayer s, in the Gottingen Acts for 1753 ; in which he not only excelled both the former in ease and elegance of computation, but in exactness also ; owing, perhaps, in some measure, to the use which he made of a number of Dr. Bradley's observations, that had been sent by the late Mr. Gael Morris to M. Euler ; and by him given to M. Mayer. In these Tables, the errors in longitude no where amounted to more than two minutes: and having yet farther improved them in 1755, he sent them over to the Right Honourable the Lords Commissioners of the British. Admiralty, with a claim to such part of the reward, offered by Parliament for the discovery of the longitude at sea, as they might be thought to deserve. He also sent over at the same time a drawing and description of an instrument for measuring angles by reflection; both of which are inserted at the end of his Lunar Tables, since printed by order of the Commissioners of Longitude. This instrument is chiefly calculated to obviate the errors which might arise in setting off the total arch in instruments less than a complete circle, as well as the irregularities that may happen in the intermediate divisions. These Tables were very carefully compared by Dr. Bradley with a great number of observations of the moon, made by himself at Greenwich, with the new instruments ; and he fays, that " in more than 230 comparisons they no-where differed from the observed longitudes so much as one minute and an half." As this quantity included both the error of the Tables and that of the Observations also,
INTRODUCTION. xxxv li also, Dr. Bradley inferred that the Tables must have generally given the moon's place true within little more than a minute of a degree, and therefore that the difficulty of finding the longitude at sea, by observations of the moon, so far as related to the accuracy of the Tables, was in a great measure happily got over, and that it only remained to prove whether or not the necessary observations could be made at sea with sufficient accuracy. In consequence of this representation, the Commiffioners of Longitude ordered two of Mr. Mayer's circular instruments to be made by Mr. Bird, and Captain Campbell, who had before given indubitable proofs of his skill and exactness in making observations of this sort, was desired to make trial of them at sea, as well as of Mr. Hadley's quadrant. Accordingly, this excellent observer, and also Mr. John Bradley, nephew to Dr. Bradley, and now second Master at the Royal Academy at Portsmouth, made a great many observations of the moon's distance from the fun aqd fixed stars, in the years 1757, 1758, and 1759; which were afterwards computed by Dr.'Bradley, and found to correspond, in a most surprising manner with one another, and also with the longitudes of known places, within fight of the ffiip when the observations were made. In the course of these trials, it did not appear that the Hadleys quadrants were liable to any considerable errors, of the kind that Mr. Mayer's instrument was intended to remove ; and as that instrument is very limited in the extent of its radius, without becoming heavy and inconvenient, it was then totally laid aside. In this state were these matters situate in the year 1760, when all the learned Societies and Academies of Europe began to prepare for observing the Transit of Venus, over the Sun's disc, in 1761 ; i which
xxxviii INTRODUCTION. which our learned countryman, Dr. Edmund Halley, had, with immortal reputation to himself,foretold, and shewn the use which Astronomers might make of it, more than eighty years before it happened. This was a favourable opportunity for all those who were employed to make that important observation, and had the method of finding the longitude at sea by observations of the moon at heart, to exert themselves in reducing, and bringing it into. practice: and in this respect none exerted themselves more, or with greater success, than our present Royal Astronomer, the Reverend Nevil Mafkelyne. This ingenious and learned Gentleman, not only made a great number of those observations with success himself, but also so far convinced the officers of the several ships, which he sailed in, of the ease and certainty wherewith they could be made, and the utility they were of, that the method soon came almost universally into use in the East India Company's service, and has now been long established, as a branch of knowledge, absolutely necessary, in their naval officers. On his return home, he published the methods he had made use of, together with many excellent modes of abbreviating the computations, which at that rime were tedious enough, and not to be effected with less than three or four hours labour by the most skilful computer, under the title of The British Mariner's Guide to the Discovery of the Longitude at Sea. In the same work he gave several methods, which before that time were not generally known, or made use of, for adjusting, and examining the Hadleys Quadrant with greater accuracy, as well as many other curious and useful hints, not so immediately relating to the subject before us, but which are nevertheless of great consequence to the mariner, and I believe now frequently used. Lastly, he recommended the publication of a Nautical Almanac, on a plan something
INTRODUCTION. XXXIX something similar to that which had formerly been suggested by M. De la Cattle", on which account he presented his book to the Commislioners of Longitude for their concurrence therein. In the mean time we had the misfortune to lose two of the greatest Astronomers that perhaps the world had ever produced, and who, of all men, had done most towards promoting and perfecting this method; namely, the Reverend Dr. James Bradley, Astronomer Royal at Greenwich, and Savillian Professor of Astronomy at Oxford, and Mr. Tobias Mayer, Professor of Oeconomy in the university of Gottingen, and author of the Lunar Tables, which have already been mentioned. The latter having been furnished with most excellent instruments, made by the late Mr. Bird, through the munificence of his late most gracious Majesty King George the Second, to the use of which he applied himself with unremitting ardour; had, by comparing his observations made therewith, as well as those which he had formerly received from his ingenious contemporary Dr. Bradley,, with the numbers resulting from the theory, so far perfected the Lunar Tables before his death, that his widow was enabled to fend over, in 1763, a set that did not differ more than one minute of a degree from any of Dr. Bradley's observations, except in a very few instances, most of which had been marked by the observer as very dubious observations; but in much the greater number, the errors did not amount to quite half a minute. The comparisons of these new Tables with Dr. Bradley's observations were made by the late very ingenious Mr. Gael Morris; and who, by comparing the Tables which Mayer first sent over with Dr. Bradley's observations, and altering the maximums of the equation where the observations seemed most to require it, had at that time
xl INTRODUCTION. time composed Tables of the moon's motions, which at all times give the moon's place in the Heavens to a very great degree of exactness: but having been indebted to Mr. Mayer both for his form and theory, he would never be prevailed on in his lifetime to let them be made public, lest they might be thought to interfere in the claim set up by that deserving Astronomer, to the reward granted by Parliament for the discovery of the longitude at sea. The accuracy of the Tables, and the practicability of making the observations, being thus ascertained, many ingenious Gentlemen began to turn their thoughts towards reducing the length and difficulty of the computations; amongst whom, my truly worthy and ingenious friend, Mr. George Witchell, head-master of the Royal Academy at Portsmouth, was peculiarly happy in hitting on a device for throwing the whole of that part of the computation which relates to the reduction of the apparent to the true distance of the moon and stars, on account of parallax and refraction, into Tables; from whence it may, in many cafes, be taken, almost at fight, and in the most troublesome ones by very easy proportions. This method was proposed to the Commissioners of Longitude in the month of September 1764, and so well approved of, that the Commissioners ordered him a gratuity of 300 I. and the tables to be computed and printed, which has since been done, with the addition of a column for correcting the effects of refraction, on account of the variable density of the atmosphere, under the inspection of the Rev. Dr. Anthony Shepherd, Plumian Profesior of Astronomy and Experimental Philosophy in the University of Cambridge, and Master of Mechanics to his Majesty. By the help of these Tables, as I can from long experience aflert, the abovementioned reduction may generally be made in about three minutes , and always in five. Mr.
t INTRODUCTION. xli \ Mr. Witchell, at the same time, proposed the publication of a Nautical Almanac, and delivered in a plan on which it might be executed: and Messrs. Dunthorne and Lyons, very soon after, produced excellent Compendiums for abridging this reduction, by means of short tables and rules ; and for which they were each of them rewarded with a gratuity of 501. and their methods ordered to be printed. Very early in the spring of the year 1765, the Rev. Nevil Masse - lyne being then returned from his voyage'to Lai dadoes, whither he had been, in consort with my brother-in-law, Mr. Charles Creen, to make observations for the trial of Mr. Harrison's Time-keeper, and in which voyage they had both of them had abundant proofs of the possibility of making the lunar observations with ease and exactness, was, on account of his many eminent services to, and great skill in the science, made Astronomer-Royal at Greenwich, on the decease of the Rev. Mr. Bliss, who had succeeded Dr. Bradley in 1762: and having now a seat at the Board of Longitude, again pressed the publication of a Nautical Almanac, and backed the memorial, which he then delivered in, with the testimony of several gentlemen in the East India Company's service; who all concurred in declaring their opinions, that such a publication would be of the utmost utility to navigation. In consequence of these representations, the Commissioners applied to Parliament for authority to print and publish such an Almanac, which was granted by an act, made in the fifth year of the reign of his present Majesty 5 and in consequence thereof, proper persons were employed, and the first Almanac, of this kind, was computed and published for 1767, and they have been continued ever since; being published several years in advance for the benefit of those who make long k voyages,.
xlii INTRODUCTION. voyages. The fame act ordered a reward of 3000 1 . to be given to the widow, or other representatives of the late Mr. Tobias Mayor, author of the Lunar Tables ; and also 300 1 . to the celebrated Mr. Euler, for what he had done in reducing Sir Isaac Newton's Theory of the Moon into neat analytical expressions, of which Mr. Mayer had availed himself, and from whence, by a very singular address of his own, had contrived to bring out the greatest quantities of the equations with ease and exactness. But although matters were thus far happily advanced, it was not proposed to rest here. The Rev. Mr. Mafkelyne having compared Mr. Mayer's last Lunar Tables with more observations, conceived hopes of bringing them to agree yet nearer with observation. Accordingly, with the approbation of the Board of Longitude, the equation tables were recomputed from numbers which he had reasons to think were nearer to the truth: he also directed that those tables should be continued to tenths of seconds, in order that fewer errors might happen from the omission of the fractional parts which arise in computation. These Tables have since been printed, and it is from them that the computations in the Nautical Almanac are now made. Moreover, two most excellent and accurate methods of reducing the observed distance of the moon from the sun, or a star, to the true, have been invented, and published in the Nautical Almanac for 1772, We are indebted for one of them to the Rev. Nevil Mafkelyne, Astronomer-Royal; and for the other to Mr. George Witchell, Head Master of the Royal Academy at Portsmouth. By these means, namely, the Nautical Almanac, and the several methods described above, of abridging the reduction of the apparent distance to the true, on account of parallax and refraction, the computations
INTRODUCTION. xliii computations, attending this method of finding the Longitude, may be performed in 15 or 16 minutes by a very moderate computer; although formerly it could not have been done in less than three or four hours by the most skilful. But notwithstanding this, there yet remained many things to be done, and great difficulties to be got over. It had yet been practised by very few persons except such as were fond of Astronomical matters; and it could not be supposed that the generality of seamen, or even any considerable part of them, should be so : and it is not an easy matter to induce people, of any denomination, to take the trouble of putting in practice the schemes of other persons, unless they are previously well assured of their success, which was by no means the cafe here ; as every seaman, without exception, had been taught, from his infancy, to look on these things as impracticable. The Right Honourable the Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty took every step in their power to encourage the practice of this method in the Royal navy; but notwithstanding this, it was rather fortunate that another transit of Venus was to be observed in 1769; which, together with the voyages, lately undertaken for discoveries towards the South, have carried many persons abroad, who, either by inclination or situation, were interested in its success, and of course exerted themselves in the practice of it; and their example has, perhaps, contributed more towards bringing it into use, than every thing else put together. As the practice of this method became more extensive, many little defects were discovered in the instruments, which had either escaped notice before, or not been much attended to. Among these, the most material were the want of accuracy in the divisions of the arch, and the errors arising from a want of parallelism in the
xliv INTRODUCTION. the two surfaces of the glass speculums. The former, Mr. Bird had shewn might be avoided by a skilful workman, and received 500 1 , from the Board of Longitude for his excellency therein ; and it is now completely removed by Mr. Ramsden, by his curious invention of a machine for dividing circular arches in Astronomical instruments ; and for which he, also, received a very handsome gratuity from the said Board. This machine divides with so much certainty and exactness, that a quadrant, which had been divided by his apprentice therewith in the presence of several of the Com- miffioners of Longitude, and afterwards examined with the utmost rigour by Mr. Bird, was found not to err, in any part, fifteen seconds of a degree ; for Mr. Bird himself assured me, that if it had, he was certain of discovering it. The same ingenious Gentleman has now under consideration a machine, of a similar kind, for dividing straight lines with equal accuracy, certainty, and expedition. The latter, namely, the errors arising from a want of parrallelifm in the two surfaces of the glasses, has also been well provided against, at least in the index-speculum, by the Rev. Mr. Maike- lyne, our present Astronomer-Royal; and which he has described in some very interesting remarks on the Hadley's Quadrant, published in the Nautical Almanack for 1774. This most excellent improvement is effected by leaving the upper part of the index-speculum unsilvered, and making that part of the glass rough on the back, and covering it with a fort of black paint; whereby all the rays are absorbed, which are not reflected from the first surface ; and which, I will be bold to say, is one of the greatest improvements that have been made to this instrument since its invention. Mr. George Holroyd, mentioned above as one of the inventors of Hadley's Quadrant, had also a thought of this kind for remedying 4 these i
INTRODUCTION. xlv these errors, as appears from a Quadrant, which I have seen, that was made for him by Mr. Dollond about the year 1765. I have also seen some contrivances, of the same Gentleman, for removing these errors, by making the speculums of a fort of opaque glass, and also of a composition somewhat resembling enamel, which might not, perhaps, be unworthy of a trial. In the same paper, Mr. Mafkelyne has given many excellent rules and directions concerning the size, height, and manner of silvering the glasses, the aperture of the telescope, and the means of adjusting it parallel to the plane of the quadrant; and he directed that two thick silver wires should be placed in the focus of the eye-glass of the telescope, dividing the diameter of the field of view into three equal parts, for that purpose: at the same time shewing many other useful purposes that these wires might be applied to. I have observed before, that Mr. Bird was the first who applied perpendicular bars to support, or strengthen the plane of this quadrant: but the index being yet made of a broad, thin bar of brass; was liable to be bended, either towards, or from the plane of the quadrant, and of course the center-work was very much exposed to damage. To'prevent this, the fame Gentleman, first of any person that I know of, applied a perpendicular bar to the face of the index; which it was then supposed would render these very delicate parts of the instrument perfectly secure. But, such are the imperfections of the very best materials we are possessed of, that it was soon after discovered, the index of a Hadley's Quadrant, strengthened even in this manner, was yet liable to bend in the direction of its breadth, or, which is the same thing, in the direction of the plane 1 of
xlvi INTRODUCTIO N. of the angle to be measured ; and that merely with the small force which is necessary to overcome the friction of the center-work ! A thing so incredible, that the late Mr. Bird, who certainly knew the instability of metals as well as any man, could not be persuaded of its possibility, until Capt. Campbell, who first discovered this defect, shewed it to him, by releasing the clamp which fastens down the index, and pushing the index gently along with his thumb; when, on suddenly removing it, Mr. Bird saw, with his own eyes, the index spring back again to a very sensible distance. And this error will be very considerable indeed, if by any mischance the screw, that binds in the center-pin, should have been screwed up a little too tight. To prevent this, Mr. Bird, in all the quadrants which he made towards the latter part of liis time, provided a thin, circular plate of hammered brass, beaten hollow on one side ; and cut, by many straight slits, from the circumference almost to the centre, where it was perforated, of a sufficient widths to receive the binding-screw of the center-work freely. This plate being put over the center-pin, with the hollow part towards the back of the quadrant, and the binding-screw put through the perforation into its place, the plate will then act as a spring against the back of the quadrant, and by its yielding prevent the center- work from being drawn too tight by the screw, and yet hold it with sufficient force to prevent any shake in it. But as there are many quadrants, which are not made in this manner, and as it is possible this apparatus may not always answer the purpose intended, so completely as might be wished for, I would advise every observer to move the index of his quadrant different ways between the observations; that is, to set the objects open* and make them overlap, alternately. By these means they are brought into contact, by moving the index different ways; and on
INTRODUCTION. xlvii on that account, the errors arising from this cause will be alternately negative and affirmative ; and of course, if an equal number be taken both ways, will nearly destroy one another. This method will also have a tendency to correct; any errors, which might otherwise arise from a faulty habit, that the observer may have contracted, in forming the contact of the two objects, and is what I always used, without ever finding any bad consequence arising from it, but that of making the observations look a little irregular, which will be more or less according to the joint quantity of these two errors. By such steps have the Instruments, as well as the practice of Nautical Astronomy, arrived to their present degree of perfection ; and it fully appears from the preceding Narrative, how great a part is owing to the rewards held forth, and the generous encouragement given, by the Board of Longitude, to ingenious men of all denominations, for inventions and improvements, that in any way conduce to the advancement of Astronomy and Navigation; and also of what vast utility that institution has been of to these flourishing and opulent kingdoms. As I have spoken rather warmly in favour of the method of finding the longitude by observations of the Moon's distance from the Sun and Fixed Stars, it may perhaps be expected that I should deliver my opinion concerning the accuracy wherewith they can be made, and what may be expected from the instrument of which I have said so much. It must be owned, there is yet something in the constitution of this Quadrant very disagreeable, and not easily to be accounted for. Sometimes, for many months together, the longitudes deduced from observations made about the same time
xlviii INTRODUCTION. time with my two Sextants, would not differ more than io or iy miles, and very seldom so much; after which the longitudes, so deduced, would begin to differ, and that difference would gradually increase, sometimes to more than a degree and an half: In a little time it would again decrease, and soon after the observations would agree as well as ever. It will readily be supposed, that no means were left untried by me to discover the cause of this strange aberration ; but all my endeavours were ineffectual; and I mention the circumstance to induce some person, more skilful in mechanics, to attempt it. With respect to the exactness that these observations may be made with, I shall beg leave to relate two plain matters of fact, which will shew what can be done in this respect, better than a thousand opinions. I reduced ten observations, all taken within the space of half a lunation before our arrival at the Cape of Good Hope, to that place, by means of Mr. Kendall's Watch; and also as many taken after leaving it, by the same means: the result of the former gave the longitude of the Cape Town i8° io' E., and of the latter i8° 2z ^ E. Their mean is i8° 1 6 ' 50" E.; differing 6' 25" from its true' longitude, as determined by Messrs. Mason and Dixon. Again, the mean of four lunar observations, taken immediately before our arrival at St. Helena, gave its longitude 5 0 30^ W., when reduced thither by Mr. Kendall's Watch: four, taken immediately after leaving it, and reduced to that place in the same manner, gave its longitude 6° 20 ' W. Their mean is 5 0 55V-5- W., which differs but 6 ' 6 " from its true longitude, as found by the Rev. Mr. Maskelyne, by a great number of astronomical observations made on shore. I therefore conclude, that, with very little trouble, the longitude of a ship, at sea, may generally be had by this method, within about
INTRODUCTION. xlix about the one-sixth part of a degree, or at most, the one-fifth. -1 thall now proceed to describe the rest of the instruments made use of in this expedition. Of the Azimuth Compasses, ( RESIDES that of Mr. Adams's making, which belonged to the Board of Longitude, and was of the late Dr. Knight's construction, we had two others, belonging to the ship. One of these also was of Dr. Knight's construction, and made by the fame artist; and the other by Mr. Gregory, with some alterations of his own, consisting chiefly in the size of the instrument, the weight and strength of its parts, and their manner of suspension, which was on friction wheels: every one of these, I conceive, were conducive either to lessen its motion, or render it more regular, and of less effect. Indeed I must observe, that Dr. Knight's Compasses, as they are now made, are very defective in these particulars; seeing that the least motion of the ship throws them into disorder, and they are not readily made steady again, which renders them very troublesome to observe with, and perhaps not quite so accurate as they might otherwise be. I cannot pass this article over without making a remark or two on the irregularities which we found in the Observations, made with these instruments. In the Channel of England, the extremes of the observed variations were from ig 0 -* to 25 0 : and all the way from England to the Cape of Good Hope, I frequently observed differences nearly as great, without being able, any way, to account for them ; the difference in situation being by no means sufficient. These irregularities continued after leaving the Cape, which, at length, put me on examining into the circumstances under which n * ' they
1 INTRODUCTION. they were made. In this examination it soon appeared, that when most of those observations were made, wherein the greatest West variations had happened, the ship's head was North and Easterly; and that when those, where it was least, had been been observed, it was South and Westerly. I mentioned this to Captain Cook, and some of the Officers, who did not at first seem to think much of it; but as opportunities happened, some observations were made under those circumstances, and very much contributed to confirm ray suspicions; and throughout the whole voyage I had great reasons to believe, that variations observed with a ship's head in disterent positions, and even in different parts of her, will differ very materially from one another; and much more will variations, observed on board different ships, which I now find fully verified, on comparing those which were made on board the Adventure with my own, made about the same time: and the inquisitive reader will find some very singular instances of these matters in the course of the following Observations.--The twelfth article does not require any account here. Of the Dipping Needles . THIS Instrument was made by Mr. Nairne, agreeable to a plan of the Rev. Mr. Mitchell, Fellow of the Royal Society; wherein the Needle may be balanced at any time, pretty exactly, but not without much time and trouble. This is done by means of four little balls, moving on two small wires; one of which is supposed to lie in a plane, passing through the axis of the Needle and its tw-o poles, and the other in a plane at right angles thereto. By moving the balls of the latter, the common center of gravity of the balls and Needle, is brought into the plane which passes 4 through
INTRODUCTION. li through the poles and axis of the Needle j and then, by moving the two former, into the axis itself. The principal defects in this construction are, the difficulty in placing the wire, which carries the two last mentioned balls, in the proper plane ; and the total impossibility of knowing, certainly, when it is so. Moreover, it is very possible, and undoubtedly often happens, that the axis of the Needle, and its two poles, do not lie in the fame plane ; in which case, another difficulty will arise in adjusting the Needle to great accuracy. It would certainly, I think, contribute towards removing these objections, if the breadth of the Needle was placed in the direction of its axis of rotation, both in this instrument, and also in the Azimuth Compass : but I speak this with submission to the opinions of better judges. Of the Barometers and 'Thermometers . THE two portable Barometers differed in no respect from common ones of that kind: but the construction of the Marine Barometer is curious, and deserves to be described. It was of that fort which we generally call Cistern Barometers : The cistern was a cy- lindric box of wood, with two circular holes in its top, one of near half an inch, and the other of near an inch diameter. Into the former of these, the tube is fitted so tight as not to admit the mercury beside it. The larger perforation is covered with a very fine piece of woollen cloth, which Mr. Nairne found had the property of admitting air through its pores, but not mercury. The tube was straight, and its bore rather small for something more than two feet? but above that, it was enlarged to the common size :The smalnessof the tube, below, prevented the mercury from ascending so fast as it would otherwise
INTRODUCTION. lii otherwise have done by the motion of the ship, and the width of the tube, above, prevented what did rise from having so sensible an effect as it would otherwise have had, on the motion of the mei> cury in that part of the tube. This Barometer was suspended on a common gimmal, about half-way up. I soon found that the motion of the ship had a very considerable effect on this instrument ; and it seemed to me, that the motion of a Barometer, thus suspended, had a tendency to make the mercury stand somewhat higher than it would otherwise have done ; and therefore the mean of the vibrations of the mercury, as put down in the following pages, will generally be greater than would be shewn by a barometer at rest. Mr. Nairne tells me, that he has since found by experiment, that a Barometer of this fort may be suspended, at such a height above the bason, that its motion will have a tendency to make its mean height less than it would be in a Barometer at rest; and from thence has been enabled to determine the point where it may be suspended, so that the mercury will neither have a tendency to ascend or descend ; and of course in a barometer, thus suspended, the mercury will be perfectly at rest. The Thermometers had nothing particular in them, farther than what is remarked at the end of the Meteorological Observations; but it would not be amiss if Thermometers, which are intended for expeditions of this fort, had a more extensive scale. The scale of those which I had extended from about o to 120.-The Theodolite, and Gunter's Chain, are too well known to need describing here. The Wind gage has already been very fully described by its inventor, Dr. Lind, in the Philosophical Transactions, vol. Ixv. p. 353, for
INTRODUCTION. liii for the year 17 y$. Such an instrument would undoubtedly be very useful, if it could be made with a scale somewhat more extensive than that I made use of. In it, the water never rose more than nine-tenths of an inch in the strongest gusts, and would then vibrate from that point to nothing. The apparatus for trying the heat of the sea-water at different depths, consisted of a square wooden tube, of about 18 inches long, and three inches square externally. It was fitted with a valve at the bottom, which opened inward, and another at its top, that opened outward, and had a contrivance for suspending the Thermometer exactly in the middle of it. When it was used, it was fastened to the deep-sea line, just above the lead, so that all the way as it descended the water had a free passage through it, by means of the valves, which were then both open; but the instant it began to be drawn up, both the valves closed by the pressure of the water, and of course the Thermometer was brought up in a body of water, of the same temperature with that it was let down to. I come now to speak of the Time-keepers; three of which were made by Mr. John Arnold, and the fourth by Mr. Larcum Kendall, on the principles of that late most excellent artist, Mr. John Harrison. I have nothing to say concerning the principles on which they were constructed: these of the latter are now well known; and I am not acquainted with those of the former. The merits of each will be best seen from the observations themselves ; and I have therefore no need to add any thing on th t head. I wished to have given a short history of what had been done, this way, towards finding the longitude at sea; but, on examination, can find no certain accounts of what was done by the respective persons who have ' n turned
liv INTRODUCTION. turned their thoughts to this subject; and a bare recital of their names would be neither useful nor entertaining. I have therefore only to add, and I am certain it will be confirmed by every sea-far- ing Person who has experienced it, that a good machine of this kind is an inestimable companion at sea. All the observations which were made on shore are put down literally as they were taken, that is, in the very numbers that were read off, and the times shewn by the clock: and, to avoid any errors that might happen in transcribing, the proof-sheets were all read by the original books. In delivering the observations which were made at sea, it was judged sufficient to give the means only, as the whole, in their original form, would have been too voluminous, and could answer no useful purpose, which will not now be equally fulfilled. Every mean was taken by two persons, separately, and carefully compared, and corrected, where necessary, by myself; so that, I hope, very few errors have crept in here. I have annexed the name of the observer to all those observations which were not made by myself, and taken care to specify such remarks as were made by him at the time of making them. The deductions from Mr. Bayly's observations were in general made by himself; and it is particularly mentioned where they are done by me, that he may not be blamed for errors which are not his own. There are two or three characters made use of in this work, which it will be proper to explain, although they are now generally known to Astronomers. : Signifies that the number, after which it stands, is, on some account or other, a little doubtful. :: Placed
INTRODUCTION. lv :: Placed in like manner, means very doubtful. After some few of Mr. Bayly's observations, taken on shore, the characters -j- or - occunthe former means that one fourth of a second must be added to, and the latter, that one fourth of a second must be subtracted from, the number against which it stands. Every sheet has been read over until no errors could be found in it, before it went to the press; and therefore, I hope, few can have escaped me: some, no doubt, there will be; but for which, every person, who knows the difficulty of compiling and correcting a work of this nature, and of such an extent, will, I am persuaded, make candid allowance, if his good-nature be not too far trespassed on. I cannot conclude, without observing that I have once, in the course of this work, stepped out of my province, and taken a liberty which I would wish not to be censured for. I had been at some pains to determine the situations of a group of small iflands, to which I cannot find that any name has been assigned by Capt. Cook: I have therefore ventured to call them by the name of a person to whom I owe very much indeed; one who took me by the hand when I was friendless, and never forsook me when I had occasion for his help; and who, I hope, will not be offended at this public acknowledgment of his favours. W. Wales.

I I t ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS, > MADE AT Different Places on Shore. i B

ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS i Observations on Drake's Island, in Plymouth Sound, by Mr. Bay ley. - 772 - rt 1 o'sU.L.? Eafterl >'- O's L. L. ) 6 45 02,4 Clock T if' 4 bef. Syderial time O's L. L. 1 o : sL.-L:f Weste ^ O's U.L.J O's U. L. 1 O's L. L. / Easterly. Very O's U. L. s cloudy. O's L. L. J 38 184 41 40 59 29 2 54 At 27 6: 3 ° 3 i 48 18 5 - 42 41 25 2 2 -7 2 7 4 57 11 - 11 20 254 11 52 4 1 44 18 7 -7 28 12 0 394 9 4 16 1 3 - 8 1 34 3 - 7 33 3 - 12 25 34 12 28 564 1 29 244 1 32 494 1 58 -3 2 10 40 2 13 594 7 -7 5 8 44 '2 47 Z6 5 3-4 l.o 8 56 1 50 Mr. Arnold's watch, No. i, ihewed o h. 55'. r- 74 r 24 29 > 45 45 50 20 1 }53 40 Westerly. | Easterly. o : :L±i EaiM r- Clock 1 after Syderial time. o : su. 4 :i Wd "y- O's U. L. O's L. L. § : :E:L7 EastCT, r- o's U. L. I o's L. L.J Clock 27" after Syderial time;
I ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS. Observations by Mr. Bayley, at Drake's Istand, Continued. x 772. L July 6 . Lower Middle Wire. ■ Wire. H ' " 8 . ■u (Times by the Clock of equal Altitudes Zenith "Upper J Distance. Wire. Time of apparent Noon by the Clock. H Phenomena and Remarks. 56 364 " 53 38 59 53 l i §7 0 9 *4 12- 12 204. 12 9 244 37 46 12 34 . 464 12 38 JO At 8 12 9 4i 35 2 44 3 r 44 55 2 47 53 3 5 59 6 24 3 9 214 2? 58 11 20 58 11 24 224 45 22 11 42 244^ 48 434 ir 45 4 54 2~ * *■ a J 3 1 47 j 35 9i ' No, 2 ihewed 47 28 7 5° 5 1 I 8 57t? ^561 5° \$3 48 o 68 20 oj 1 h 22" 58 30 55 6 42 5 1 . f55 1 58 3° 7 15 rZ'9 y Westerly. ©'s L. Lo G's U. L. q'sL. L. O's U. L. ©*s L. L. O's U.L.J ©'s U. L. 0's L. L. G's U. L. I O's L. L.J . Clock T 23 '' after Syderial time. 0'sU.L.' 1 °' s L Westerly. o'sU L. ( O's L. L.J ■I Easterly. Observations for the Latitude of the Place, by Mr. Bayley. 1772. Zenith Distance. 5 it ? 6 July 1. -- 2. - Z- - 7. 27 31 zt> 27 36 \6\ 2741 s 6 4* 3 33 37 36 to 2819 8 Latitude. Baro- me f er. Phenomena. 50 21 20 '50 21 30* 50 2l 31 50 2i 29 50 21 26^ 50 21 35 .,0,27177, o's L. L. ! 30,20'76'Ditto. The Clock's Rate of going. 1 63 Ditto. [so 1 * Aquilae. 60 a Ophiuchi. 30,23 Z0,11 3°'' 1 , . 30,00176; o's L. L. J On the V Meridi an. The mean is 50 21 28s N. Latitude. S it S !! o v u 1772. July i. 2 . jCIock C. before Syderial Time. 'lock gain [onSyd.time 5- 6 . 1 *7'4 o 54*5 o 33,8 After o 6, t o 27,0 1 23,0 22.9 20,7 *9>95 20.9 18,67 Mean Rate of losing 2 0,6 2 5
ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS. 3 Observations at Drake's Istand, Continued. Observations of the Sun, Moon, and Stars, made with the Transit Instrument placed nearly in 1 the Meridian. 1772. First Wire. Second Wire. Middle Wire. Fourth Wire. Fifth Wire. Phenomena and Remarks. ✓ ✓/ ' /✓ H. ' " ✓ $ July 7. 52 54 t 53 36J 12 54 i8f 54 54 55 44f i's First Limb. 22 17 22 59± >7 23 43 24 25 25 8 a. Ophiuchi. 11 58 12 38J 19 13 21 *4 3 14 44 S Aquilae. 37 34 3 8 i5f 19 38 584 39 4i 40 22J " Aquilae. It appears from the observations of " Ophiuchi and " Aquilae, that the instrument was west of the true meridian 3' 37"-, that is, it cut the Meridian in the Zenith under that angle : moved it a little to the eastward. 8 - 8 . n 49 8 [49 5 1 2 41s 3 2 5 30 32I 3i H 13 34 12 334 13 184 r 4 49i 15 35 t 13 >5 16 1 7 5o 4 3 * 14 2 3 14 16 35i 21- 12 21 5 1 i9i 4 54f 3 2 3 8 4 15 8 i 52 it 5 37i 33 19 17 6 17 5i "'s First Limb. Arcturus. " Serpentis. Antares. a, Ophiuchi. o's First Limb. O's Second Limb. By comparing these observations of the Sun's Transit with the equal altitudes, it appears that the vertical, in which the instrument moved, after it had been altered on the 7th, made an angle with the true Meridian of 1' 46"; the southern semi-circle of that vertical lying so much to the eastward. The two transits of x Ophiuchi, when compared together, make the arch of the Horizon intercepted between the two verticals in which it moved, before and after the alteration, 4' 49"; and of course the angle, under which it cut the Meridian after the alteration, was 1' 12''; but the transits of the three stars Arcturus, a Serpentis, and Antares, when compared with their apparent right ascensions, make the angle only 23": the mean of the three is i' 7^ of a degree. It happened, very unfortunately, that no Observations, corresponding to these were made at Greenwich, nor by the late Dr. Bradley, in 1754, or 223 complete lunations before, namely, on June 27th and 28th : but I have endeavoured to correct the Tables from two Observations, made bv that excellent Astronomer June 24th and 29th, and by comparing the right ascensions ot the Moon, deduced from the preceding Observations, with the Tables so corrected, I make the Longitude of Drake's Island 4 0 18' 52" W. of Greenwich. The Rev. Mr. Mafkelyne, Astronomer Royal, by means of Martin's Map of Cornwall, and the situation of the Lizard Point, as given by Mr. J. Bradley's Observations, (See Preface to Nautical Almanack for 177,) makes the Longitude of Drake's Island 4" 13" 23" W. If I take 4 0 16J' W. the mean of these two determinations, it may perhaps be nearer than either, as both are in some measure uncertain.
4 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS. Observations at Drake's Island, Continued. The Clock, by which the times were taken, was fixed up very firmly to an oak plank, 11 inches broad, and 2f thick, let three feet into the ground, and well braced on each side. It was marked C, which is necessary to be noted, as some of the following Observations were taken by another which is marked B. The pendulum, all the time, vibrated i° 50' each way from the perpendicular. All the computations were made by Mr. Bayley, except the times of apparent noon and rate of the Clock's going, which were recomputed by myself. On Friday, July the 10th, in the evening, the three Time-keepers, N°. 1, 2, 3, made by Mr. Arnold, were set agoing by himself, nearly to mean time ; and I set that made by Mr. Kendall, on Mr. Harrison's principles, agoing also. At 13 h. o 6" by the Clock, the watches N° 3 . 1 and 2 shewed each of them 5 h. 45'; from whence Mr. Bayley computed that they were 12" too flow for mean time at this place. At 14 h. 15' by the Clock, Mr. Kendall's watch shewed 6 h. 59' 52"; and at 14 h. 28' Mr. Arnold's watch, N°. 3, shewed 7 h. 12'39"; from whence I computed, that the former was too fast for mean time by 7-ioths of a second, and the latter too flow by ioi" at the times of comparison. N° S . 1 and 2 were taken on board the Adventure by Mr. Bayley, and N n . 3, together with that made by Mr. Kendall, were carried by myself on board of the Resolution. The Rev. Mr. Mafkelyne, Astronomer Royal, had previously found the rates of going of N° s . 1, 2, and 3, to be respectively gaining 4-Aths of a second; gaining 14", 15, and losing 14",63; and that the rate of Mr. Kendall's was Z-8ths of a second a day losing, all on mean time: Mr. Bayley computed, from the preceding comparisons, that N Q . 2 got, while here only, 6",057 a day. 1772. v July 9* Observations for the Variation of the Compass. ^ Time by the Clock. The Sun's Zenith Distance. Magnetic azimuth. Variation West. H ' " c - " 0 ' Observe 13 45 3° 4 6 3 8 5 i 12 Observ 13 54 48 56 49 59 6 d with a Coir 77 9 36 77 29 0 78 0 38 r ed with a Co 78 35 0 78 50 0 79 10 0 ipass made by Gi N. 49 27 W. 48 20 47 35 mpass made by / N. 46 00 W. 45 45 45 *5 •egory. 20 37 21 22 21 29 tdams. 22 2I| 22 18 22 23 O , The mean of all is 21 45 h By placing the Compass in the meridian, 1 and turning the index to the meridian I21 13s mark, the variation was found to be J The mean of both is 21 29-'^ Needle's N°. End. 1772. ? July io. Means Dip of the Needle'sN°.End. Face of the Instrument. Eass s ' 7 2 45 72 50 72 55 72 5© West. 0 7i 15 7 1 30 7 1 20 7 1 2i4 72 5l
ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS 5 Observations made at the British Consul's House, at Fonchial, on the Islanc of Madeira. Equal Altitudes: Time by the Clock markedB. 1772 . Lower Wire. Middle Wire. Upper Wire. / " H ' n July 30 . l 9 17 : 4 21 22 21 5° 23 5 8 * 26 4 32 24 4 34 2 9i 36 35 34 57 4 37 5i 39 11 ? - 31 . 49 584 12 47 524 45 464 52 28 12 50 24i 48 19 # 21 53 4 24 0 26 5 24 294 26 136 28 4if 33 1 4 35 n 37 14 Aug. 1 . 35 37 37 44 39 51 h 55 50 12 53 46 "" 5i 43 58 22 56 19 54 13 * 6 59* l 3 4 55 9 3 1 7 26 5 22 Zenith Distance. Time of apparent Noon by the Clock. H ' H Phenomena and Remarks. } 59 4° } 56 ? 5 6 40 °? 1 57 40 o 40 o 20 o 20 O \59 40 8 42 33,28 8 45 49,88 o's U. O's L. O's U. O's L. O's L. O's U. O's U. o 's L. O's U. O's L. O's L. o'sU. O's L. O's U. 1 Easterly. l:j k' | Westerly. L.' L* [Easterly. lj M L* s Westerly. L" Hence it appears that the Clock lost 3 6",6 a day on Syderial time. 1772. Observed by Mr. Lay ley. | Zenith Time by the Clock marked C. Distance. ¥ July 31, At 13 h. 31" 39"" by B, it was 13 h. 31' o" by C. At 22 h. 24' o", the Clock B strewed 22 h. 24/ 54' 3 * 4 i 2 9 32 43 2 5 48 i 184 3 i 5* 2 52 *5l 16 22 3 3 3 4 34 38 3 i 34 45 47 5 7 8i 47* 2lf J 7 t 52 74 4°i 36 29; 3 6 35 34 41 Z6 36J 47 34 50 44 7 2 3 * ? 63 9 53* * * 1 IN 7° } 67 21 33 25 Time of pasting the Meridian. Phenomena and Remarks. 19 36 32,8 * Aquilae, Eastward. * Aquilae, Westward. O's U. L. O's L. L. O's U. L. o's L. L. O's U. L, O's L. L. At 4I1. 58' 554" by C, it was 5 h. by B,
6 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS. Observations at Fonchial, Continued. Equal Altitudes: Time of Time by the Clock C. Zenith apparent 1772. Lower Middle Upper Distance. Noon by Phenomena and Remarks. Wire. Wire. Wire. the Clock. H " H ' " H ' H ' " H ' " h August 1. At 8 h. 44' 49j" B shewed 8 44 ^ 0-2 8 h. 46' O". 23 42 13 21 27 -9 13 - 2:1 63 25 0 o's L. L. 26 15 24 O 21 46 J o's U. L. 46 1 1 3 4 i 17 43 4 6 39 ^ I f* 35 i > 67 33 0 O's L. L. 0 's U. L. - 13 54 43 57 17 52 27 tJ 70 21 O o's L. L. 0's U. L. Hence the Clock C seems to have lost at the rate of 1 1 5" a day on Syderial time. Whilst we were here, the Thermometer stood from 74° to 72s 0 . All the computations were made by myself. The Observations were made at the house of the British Consul, which is about 200 yards, nearly due east, from the place where the late Dr. Thomas Heberden made his Observations. The Clocks stood on a brick floor, and were screwed fast to a large book-case, full of books, and which was fastened in a very firm manner to the wall of the house. The pendulum of B vibrated t° 40' on each side of the perpendicular, and that of C i° 53'. Comparisons of Mr. Kendall the Clock B. s Watch with Comparisons of Mr. Arnold's Watch (No. 3.) with the Clock B, 1772. Time by B. Time by K. 1772. Time by B. Time by A. PI ' " H ' " H ' " H ' " ? July zi. 9 35 38 l 3 39 0 4 44 8 28 50 1 50 0 5 52 47 20 56 0 1240 0 S July 31. 9 3 6 37* 13 40 21 4 42 0 8 26 39s 1 35 0 5 Z8 0 20 37 0 0 2 1 O Tj August I. 14 4 37 6 15 ° h August l. 14 6 42 6 0 0 Comparisons of Mr. Arnold's Watch Comparisons of Mr, Arnold's Watch (No. 1 .) with the Clock C. (No. 2.) with the Clock C. 1772. Time by C. Time by A. 1772. Time by C. Time by A. H ' " H ' " H ' " H ' " S July 31. 9 33 -3f 13 35 40 8 33 46 1 47 0 5 49 0 0 45 0 ? July 31. 9 34 od -3 37 29 8 35 39t 2 42 0 6 45 0 1 41 0
astronomical observations. 7 Observations at Fonchial, Continued. If r be put for the Clock's gain on the Watch in any given time (a) shewn by the Clock, as for example, between any two times of comparison, v for the time shewn by the Clock, between the comparison and nearest apparent noon, and A for the time by the Watch when the comparison was made; then I fay that the time shewn by the Watch at the apparent noon, or time of the fun's centre being on the meridian, will be expressed by A ± v + - • the uppper signs having j place when the comparison is made before, and the lower ones when it is made after noon ; but if the Watch goes faster than the Clock, it will be just the contrary ; and by making use of this | formula, and computing from the above Observations, and comparisons of the Time-keepers : therewith, I find that the several rates of the three, made by Mr. Arnold, and marked No. i, 2, and 3 were, gaining 2",31, gaining 55",89, and losing 56",9 on mean time in 24 b.; and that the Watch made by Mr. Kendall, on Mr. Harrison's principles, was losing 1 ",77 on mean time in the same space. Observations at the Cape of Good Hope Equal Altitudes. Time by Clock marked B. Time of ap- Zenith parent Noon Distance* by the Phenomena and Remarks. I 77 2 * Lower Middle Upper Wire. Wire. Wire. Clock. O Nov. 1. 45 58 10 48 14 O's U. L. O's L. L. ! Easterl 7 - } West er ly. 48 50 54 f 53 H 3 * 36,7 W. B. 14 51 18 12 33s to igi 17 29s 18 15 14 O's U. L. L -4* o 26s 10 2 33s 4 49 24 o 19 of 21 16 18 52 42 50 27 I l8 dd 2 li <2 4.1 i 60 O O 36 18 55 2li 53 4 7 T 9 9 9i 6 54l l 6? - 1 9 11 4-7 i 9 3 2 t J 24 o o 15 10 22 33i O's U. L, o's L. L 0'sEL O's L. L. J r 4 37 2,4 yw. b. o's L. L. Westerly. O's U. L. Exceed- O's L. L. ing strong O's U. L. wind. ^ 22 55 25 10 27 24I- j 59 4° 0 Q 's U. L. | Easterly. O's L. L. 56 48k 18'54 3°' 5 2 59 2 5 14 39'42,8 o'su! l. l Westei 'h 6 . D
8 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS. Observations at the Cape of Good Hope, Continued. 1772. ? Nov. 6. Equal Altitudes. Time by the Clock marked B Lower Wire. Middle Wire. 16 20 10 i8 35 21 12s © -- 8 . 11 45 14 2 4 i 23 3 : 25 41 - 6 12 8 50 23 37i 26 15 v - 9 * 10. 11 '9 9 28I 12 8 19 20 46 23 25 10 8 28 10 11 6 10 25 53 f 10 28 32s Upper Wire. Zenith Distance. 9 35 1 | 6^ 40 12 137 r 5 ^ 20 53 {61 20 23 3 ° 1 12I H 6 1 20 7 9 Sol !z ttf 51 28 si 12 . IO 2 19 7 45 ' 12 384 10 234 27 2;i 19 25 11 5 30 6t 27 49l 41 i4i n 43 32 43 54i 46 14 52 45 t 11 55 24. 55 28i 57 474 46 164 17 4Z 58 48 59" 46 41 57 472 17 55 29s 0 28 58 11 23 254 10 25 40s 26 Z" 28 204 21 24 19 19 7I 24 24 21 47 58 23s 10 0 417 i 3 IO 3 20-£ 9 54 IO II 10 14 24 19 44 354 49 33 47 i 6 f 57 35l 19 55 18s 0 16 57 597 3 * J 60 15 if I 60 y "3 5 * I ?44 40 L J 39 42 20 142 20 if! 12 55 52 f 27 59 IJ 6i 30 37 2 44 40 10 !£ii!"5 12 44 5 8 t J '65 53 55 4 * Ili 6 ? Time of apparent Noon by the Clock. Phenomena and Remarks. H 14 45 13,76 o o o o o o o o o o o 14 48 0,71 16 5 S!"f -° 19 3°T J 12 O 14 5 ° 46,45 14 53 36,82 14 59 i L 3 b o's U.L. j o's L. L.f O's U. L.f O's L. L.) Easterly. O's L. L. \ O'sU. L. ) o'sU. L. 1 o'su.L.f Easterl y- o's L. L.) o's L. L.T O S U" L* I ttt n 1 G's L. L 4 Westerl >'- O'sU. L.) O'sU. L.-j o''sU.L. Ea ^rly. o's L. L.J >W. B. O s L. L.. i4sE± Weto, r- O's U. L.J I O S La L. ©*s U. L ' | Westerly. ^ W. B. O's U. L. O's L o's U 0 's L. L . L n :fc . L.J Easterly. W. B. o's L. L.-j Si L. fe:f Wcsteri r- w.B. o's U. L.J
astronomical observations. 9 Observations at the Cape of Good Hope, Continued. 1772. if. Nov. 12. ? - 13 Equal Altitudes. T ime by Clock B. Lower Wire "4 40 22 2Z 52 *5 55? 18 23^ 21 2 § 48 57 5 1 37 4 5 6 455 Middle Wire. H 12 39 58 17 17 24 1 6 IO 5 3 2 f 8 I4i 10 20 20 23 #9* 19 4 6 401 49 20| 20 1 48 4 28^ Upper Wire. Zenith Distance. H ' ~ }35 135 7 5 °i 1 67 IO 2Q-| S ' 22 56 25 35 t Time ot apparent Noon by the Clock. H ' 15 2 2 | '" ] 64 4T 44 24 U 4 47 3 t * 59 3 2 ?:i 1-7 15 4 52,7 Phenomena and Remarks. O'sU. L. O's L. I ' | Easterly. ©'s U. L. o's L.L. ©'s U. L. G's L. L. Easterly. O s L. L. 1 ^L±} Wclto, r- lo's U.L.J ►W. B. Observed times when the Sun's and Moon's Limbs, and fixed Stars transited the Meridian ; toge ther with the Comparisons of the Clocks with each other. 1772. Time by the Clock marked C. & Nov. 3. S --4- V 6 . First Wire. Second Wire. Middle Wire. H Fourth Wire. Fifth Wire. At 1 oh. of 22" by B, it was 10h. 9' q' by C 36 3 8 ? At 14I1, At 19 38 2li At 10 h. At 14 h 23 3 1 ? i H 35 49 38 5 t 36 34 38 49? 37 l6 Z 39 3i 37 20 l . _ . . .. _ 41' o" by B, it was 14 h. 40' 35s" by C. h. T 26'' by B, it was 19 b. 1 o" by C. 39 3f I 22 39 4 Si 48 59 j 22 49 42^ 40 2Q^ 50 25I 41 11 41' 32^'' by B, it was 10 h. 4T o" by C. 5 °' 35 i" by it was 14 h. 50' o" by C. 24 13 55 3° 2 39 20 38 23 24 56T. 23 56 13 i o 3 27I o 21 27 25 39 56 575 4 22 15I 26 20£ At 11 h. o' o" by B, it was 10 h. 59' 11 by C. 4* 33s I 42 i6i 4i 375 At 14 40 5? 1 4- 40 49 T 42 21 - . 52' o x/ by B, it was 14 h. by C. O's First Limb. O's Second Limb. >W. B. 5's First Limb. I "Pegasi. J r's First Limb. Pegasi. Andromeda. Andromeda. >W. B. ©'s 1 st L. O's ^L; c| °udy.}w. B .
ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS. Observations at the Cape of Good Hope, Continued. 1772. ¥ Nov. 6 . Transits of the Sun, Moon, and Stars over the Meridian. Time by the Clock C. First Wire. Second Wire. Middle Wire. I Fourth Wire. Fifth Wire. ✓ ✓✓ / " H ' " ✓ // , " 45 5 °i 45 " 7 f 53 19 8 21 At 0 4.6 Zl 4 45 594 54 2 k 9 24 i. 14 0" b 21 22 46 43 23 54 45I O 9 45 v y B, it was 0 47 5 6 4 47 26s 55 294 10 29 h. 13' 3k" 48 364 11 IO| by C. 46 50J 1 1 47 36-5 | 48 22 \ At 10 h. 26' i|" by B, it was 10 h. 25' o" by C. 4 i 5 2 k 42 3 6 44 5 i 14 43 *94 45 35 44 3 k 46 19I 47 At 14h. 51' o" by B, it was 14h. 49' 56" by C. At 19 h. 27' 74" by B, it was 19 h. 26' o" by C. ' 47 71 50 94 44 45 2i 45 43 ^ 46 26 47 l k 47 48 23 48 354 49 23 5 2 3 i 2-3 53 2 4 k 53 53 53 23 54 - 6 0 54 48 55 3 o 4 ;6 l 5T. Phenomena and Remarks. * Aquarii. q ^Pegasi. ) D's First Limb. >W> B * " Arietis. O's First Limb. ©'s Second Limb. a Aquarii. % Andromeda^ y Pegasi. D's First Limb. At o h. 59' o" by B, it was oh. 57' 47" by C. At 10 h. 15' x 84 " by B, it was 10 h. 14' o" by C, This forenoon we examined and adjusted the line of collimation of the instrument, and at noon endeavoured to bring it into the plane of the Meridian, by keeping the Sun's first limb at the middle wire, until the Clock shewed the time at which it ought to pass it according to computation ; but the screw which turns the. instrument round in azimuth was too fine to keep pace with the Sun's diurnal motion : Mr. Bay ley then noted its transit at the following wires. © Nov. 8. 46 3 °t 14 46 26 47 134 '4 47 57 k 48 42 47 8§ ©'s First Limb. ©'s Last Limb. ; j w. b. (At 19 h. 17' 244" by B, it was 19 b. 16' o' by Clock C] At 12 h. 11' s 2 ^'' by B, it was 12 h. 10' o" by C. Moved the Transit Instrument yet nearer to the Meridian, and fixed up two Meridian marks, one at about a mile and a half, and the other about half a mile distant. : O's First Limb. ! ©'s Second Limb. At 14 h. §4/ 0" by B, it was 14 h. 52' 27'' by C. At 18 h. 1' 344" by B, it was 18 h. o ' o" by C. D, Nov. 9. 47 2 9 l- : 14 48 * 3 * 48 51 4 49 45 k 50 3 ° 5 i 14 40 28 41 to{- 22 4 f 54 4-2 38s 43 20 x Pegasi. 41 '5 41 59 k 1 42 444 43 30s 44 14! 2 Arietis. Cloudy. 26 5-1 k 2 27 39 k 28 23s 29 54 D's First Limb. At 2 39 0'' by B, it was 2 h * 37 ' 2 if' by C. At 10 h. i£ "■ 4.2" by B , it was 1 P. h" 17' 0" by C.
ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS. ir Observations at the Cape of Good Hope, Continued. 1772. $ Nov. 10. S -ix. Transits of the Sun, Moon, and Stars, over the Meridian. Time by the Clock C. First Second Middle Fourth Fifth Wire. Wire. Wire. Wire. Wire. H. 7 ' " 49 24 50 74 *4 50 5*4 5i 36 5- 4° 1 564 53 7 t 53 52 54 35 42 9 t 42 23 43 434 44 3i4 45 *74 47 4|: 47 474 23 48 3°4 49 *4t 49 5 6 4 39 48I 40 334 1 4i 184 42 44 42 484 35 464 36 27I 2 37 94 38 32s 15 34 15 474 3 16 3 2 4 17 *74 18 04 17 "4 17 551 18 404 *9 254 20 8 104 8 534 4 9 374 10 2 14 11 44 At 10 h. 41' 51 J" by B, it was 10 h. 40' o" by C. 52 1 52 44^ 14 53 28 54 *74 55 *4 55 45 4 At 15 h. 1 o" by B, it was 14 At 10 h. 18' o" by B, it was 10 h, 16' o" by C 56 30 h. 59' 6' 57 * 2 4 by C. k - -12. 54 4* 55 244 14 56 8| 56 5 2 4 57 4*f *4 58 25I 59 *°4 At 15I1. 7' 2" by B, it was 15 h. 5' o" 59 52t by C. At 20 h. 2 4" by B, it was 20 h. o' o" by C. 36 574 37 424 I 38 28 39 *44 59 354 O 20t 5 * 5! 1 5*f 25 *34 25 544 5 27 *94 39 574 28 At 5 h. 8' 8 " by B, it was c h. 6 ' e" by C. . r_ _ r-' 1 ^ 1 A. . 04 ? -*3- 57 *9 58 2f *4 58 464 59 3°4 0 *94 *5 * 34 * 474 At 15 h. 7' 0" by B, it was 15 h. 4' 474" 23 47 24 28 5 25 iof 25 534 52 29 53 *34 5 53- 574 54 444 *5 47 16 304 6 17 14: Cloudy. At 6 h. 24' 0" by B, it was 6 h. 21' 40" At 10 h. 27' 2if " by B, it was 10 h. 25' 0 H -- 14* 59 594 0 424 *5 * 264 2 nl 3 °4 *5 3 444 4 29* 2 Zl by C. 26 34 55 28 At iA h. 7' 23by B, it was iZ h. 5' o" by C. 40 234 6 41 7s 4* 5*4 45 54 6 45 45* O's First Limb. } O's Second Limb. x Andromeda, y Pegasi. a Arietis. a, Ced. 5's First Limb. J>'s Second Limb. Aldebaran. O's First Limb. O's Second Limb. O's First Limb. O's Second Limb. Phenomena and Remarks. 4W. B. W. B. "Arietis. "j v's Second Limb. £ W. B. " Orionis. J O's First Limb. O's Second Limb. x Orionis. r's Second Limb. Syrius. O's First Limb. ) w R o's Second Limb. 5 VV * ' Supposed 51 st of 1 Gemino. SeeBri-( w R . tilh Catalogue, f * * 2da ad a Gemino. J E
12 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS Observations at the Cape of Good Hope, Continued. 1772. h Nov. 14. O-15. Transits of the Sun, Moon, and Stars, over the Meridian. Time by the Clock C. First Wire. 43 i Second Wire. 46 3 7 i o 8; 7 2 5 i 11 264 Middle Wire. H 6 47 33 t 7 o 58s 7 8 74- 12 14s Fourth Wire. 48 1 9 i 484- O 3 Fifth Wire. 9 3 °t At 7 h. 18' 32s" by B, it was 7 h. 16' o" by C. At 10 h. z8' 34" by B, it was 10 h. 36" o" by C. 38s 3 5 ai : 39 * 15 4 6f 6 234 4 5 °f 7 8j 7 5 *i At 15 h. 13' o" by B, it was i§ h. 10' 23s" by C Phenomena and Remarks. D *s Second Limb. Castor. Procyon, Pollux. }w. B. G 's First Limb. G's Second Limb. Observations for the Variation of the Compass. >77 2 - . Time by the Clock B. The Sun's magnetic azimuth. Variation West, H ' " * O O s Nov 13. 20 20 37 N. 79 55 W. 20 1 22 56 80 0 20 >3 24 3 r 80 0 20 25 h - 14. 20 30 3 ® 81 10 >9 53 32 39 8i >5 20 4f 33 aof 81 40 >9 45 33 56 81 50 J 9 > 9 i 34 58 82 5 >9 29s 35 II* 82 >5 >9 24 20 39 29 82 35 >9 371 40 12 83 0 >9 >7 41 2 81 5 21 18s 42 52 81 20 21 >71 43 44 83 40 >9 4 f 44 44 83 45 19 45 35 8Z 45 >9 >3 46 22 81 >5 21 50 Variation West. Variation West. 0 ' ° 21 3 ° 20 50 21 0 20 30 21 10 21 0 2 I >5 20 40 21 0 21 20 . 21 20 21 10 21 >5 21 20 20 30 21 5 20 20 20 50 20 40 20 40 20 20 21 5 20 25 20 50 20 10 20 35 20 57 20 55 these two columns, were got by placing the compass in the meridian, and turning the index to the meridian mark. The mean of all the variations found from the time, is 19 0 57' 35 by the Meridian mark, is 20° 55' 4" ' ' " r L the mean of all those taken and the mean of both is 20 9 26s West.
ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS rZ Observations at the Cape of Good Hope, Continued. Computations of the Rates at which the two Clocks went. 1 1772. Time of apparent Noon by Clock B. H ' J> Nov. 2. 14 31 36,7 L - 4- *4 37 2,4 n - 5* 14 39 42,8 h - 7- 14 45 I.3* 8 O - 8. 14 48 0,7 " - 9- 14 50 46,4 F -10. 1+ 63 3 6 >7 it - 12. 14 59 11,4 r -iz. 15 2 2,1 b -14. 15 4 52,7 Syderial Time of apparent Noon. Clock B slow of Syderial Time. H ' 14 32 41,4 14 40 36,7 *4 44 35"6 1 4'7 3 3 4,3 4 52,8 14 52 35-7 7 21,9 14 56 37.0 15 0 39>2 8 36,3 9 §2,8 15 4 42,1 " 5>4 15 12 50,7 15 16 56,2 15 2l 3,6 *3 39'3 *4 54s 1 16 9,9 Mean Rate of the Clocks Clock B loies on Syderial Time. Clock C loses on B. Clock C loses on Syd.time. H 1 14,8 1 18,5 10,8 1 14,6 515,2 1 *3,5 1 14,4 I 7 ,4 1 1 6,Z 11,6 1 12,6 9,3 I 16,9 J 9,3 t iv,7 1 14,8 10,7 1 15,8 10,7 / 1 15,43 11,92 1 27,3/ Computations of the Rate at which Mr. Arnold's Watch (N°. i.) went, by Mr. Bayley. 1772. Time by the Watch No. 1. Time by the Clock C. Clock C before Watch No, 1. H H H / " Nov. 4. 22 6 0 14 48 0 |6 42 © 5- 22 12 0 14 56 54 16 44 54 $ --- 6. 22 23 0 15 10 42 16 47 42 1? -- - 7. 21 37 0 14 27 27; 16 50 27I O 8. 2 I 39 0 14 32 11 16 53 11 r 9- 22 6 0 15 2 41 16 56 4* s -- 10. 22 7 0 15 5 55 16 58 55 s - n. 22 2 0 -5 3 45* 17 1 451 -12. 22 3 0 15 7 37 17 4 37 ? - *3- 22 22 0 1 5 29 29 17 7 29 i? ■-14- 22 4 0 *5 14 14 17 10 14 0 ■- 15- 22 4 0 15 27 2* 17 >3 2f Watch loses on theClock between Comparison. Interval of comparison. Watch loses on the Clock in twenty- Clock loses on Syderial time. Watch loses on Syderial time. Watch loses on mean time. ' V H " ' " / /✓ 2 54 24 6 2 53.3 1 29,0 4 22,Z 0 25,8 2 48 24 11 2 46,6 1 29,1 4 15,7 0 19,2 2 451 23 >4 2 50,9 1 29,1 4 20,0 0 23,5 2 43* 24 2 2 43 s 5 1 32,8 4 16,3 0 19,8 2 53* 24 27 2 50,3 1 25,8 4 16,1 0 19,6 2 50* 24 i 2 50,5 1 25,8 4 16.3 0 19,8 2 50* 23 55 2 51,1 1 26,1 4 17,2 0 20,7 2 51* 24 1 2 5 i ,5 1 26,1 4 17,6 O 21,1 2 52 24 19 2 49,6 1 25,9 4 15,5 O 19,0 2 45 23 42 2 47,2 1 25,9 4 lZ.i 0 16,6 2 48* 24 0 2 48,5 1 2 5,9 4 14,4 0 17,9 Mean Rate 0 : the W atch (N 1.) 0 20,3 Mr. Bayley farther computes, that at the time when this Watch was compared with the Clock, on November 4, it was too stow for mean time, at the Cape, by 1 h. 49' 9'', 1.
14 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS, Observations at the Cape of Good Hope, Continued. Computations of the Rate at which Mr. Arnold's Watch (No. z.) went. 1772. Time of apparent Noon by the Clock. Time by the Clock when the Watch was compared. Tune from Noon by the Clock. Clock's gain on Watch, j Time from Noon by the Watch. Time by he Watch when compared. Time of apparent Noon by theWatch. Mean Time of apparent Noon. Watch flow of mean Time. Watch gains on mean Time. H H H H H ' " H ' ' I ft civ. 2. -4 3 - 30.7 -4 4 - 5 5 -J IO - 8.55 64 IO 16,91 >9 59 38 19 49 21,09 23 43 47 -c 3 54 25,91 i 6,0 $ - 3 9 48 15,89 23 43 47,8 3 55 31,91 1 7,51 3 - 4 - -4 37 2,4 -4 47 54 * IS 51,85 I 73 (0 50,12 >9 58 0 19 47 9,88 2 3 43 49>3 3 50 39,42 1 16,06 A- 5 - H 39 42,8 -4 58 55 * •9 7.45 3 67 -9 20 5 0 >9 45 56 22 2 3 43 5--7 3 57 55,48 144,05 ?- 6. -4 4 Z 28,3 >5 -5 -8^ 32 50,2 5 57 32 44.63 20 >7 0 ■9 44 15.37 2 3 43 54,9 3 59 39.53 1 4.2,22 h - 7 - "4 4 ? - 3,8 -4 3 ° 33 * 14 39,5 2 45 -4 37,<>5 -9 23 0 '9 4 Z 37,05 23 43 58,8 4 I 21,75 141,29 O- 8. >4 48 0,7 -4 3 2 57 -5 3.7 3 14 -5 0,56 -9 26 0 '9 41 0,56 23 44 3 > 6 4 3 3,04 141,15 v- 9 - 14 5 ° 46,4 >5 3 23* 12 36,85 I 96 12 34,89 -9 5 2 0 >9 39 2 5 .-> 23 44 9-3 4 4 44.19 I ?Z ,20 5 -10. >4 S 4 36.7 -5 7 40* >4 3,8 2 21 -4 ->59 -9 52 0 •9 37 58,4- 23 44 15,8 4 6 17,39 1 32,62 Z-1 r. 14 56 24,0 >5 5 52 9 28,0 I -9 9 26,81 -9 46 0 -9 Z6 33,19 23 44 23,2 4 7 50,01 1 35,24 li -IZ. >4 59 11,4 >5 7 6* 7 54 , 8 ; I O 7 53>85 -9 43 0 -9 35 6.15 2 3 44 3 M 4 9 25,25 t 30,17 ? - > 3 - -; 2 2,1 >5 3 i 22 29 19,88 4 96 29 14, 9 2 20 3 0 19 33 45,o8 23 44 40,5 4 10 55.42 1 38,19 T?-14. >5 4 52-7 '5 -7 37I 12 45,5 2 29 1 2 43,21 -9 45 0 -9 32 16,79 23 44 5°>4 4 12 33 , 6 - Mean Rat s of the Wat ch's losing 1 30,642 Computations of the Rate that Mr. Kendall's Watch went at. 1772 . Time of apparent Noon by the Clock. Time by the Clock when the Watchwas compared. 'lime from Noon by the Clock. Clock's gain on Watch. Time from Noon by the Watch. Time by the Watch when compared. Time of apparent Noon by the Watch. Mean Time of apparent Noon. Watch flow of mean Time. Watch gains on mean Time, H " H ✓ ^ ✓ ' " 1 7 -4 4 - 55 i 10 l 3,8 O I,I 10 17,7 22 23 C 22 12 42,3 23 43 47,0 - 3 1 47 + 0,6 $ - 3- >4 34 - 9.5 >5 29 42 55 2Z ,5 0 6,2 55 16,3 23 8 O 22 12 43,7 23 43 47.8 - 3 - 4 .i - -,4 g-- 4 - -4 37 2,4 -4 45 >9 1 8 17,1 O 0,9 8 16,2 22 2 I O 22 12 43,8,23 43 49*3 - 3 1 l' S 0,0 - 0,5 + 2,9 if- 5 - >4 39 42,8 -4 56 59 17 16,2 0 1,9 -7 14,3 22 30 O 22 -2 45-7 23 43 5-,7 - 3 * ? -- 6, -4 42 28.3 s 1 >3 4 ° 3 - -->7 0 3-5 3- 8,2 22 44 O 22 12 51,8 23 43 54>9 - 3 1 3.- + l ,7 + M I? - 7 - -4 45 1 3,8 ! -4 >4 28 i4i 16 59.3 0 1,9 16 57,4 21 5 b 0 22 -2 57,4 2Z 43 58-8 - 3 - -.4 ® - 8. -4 48 0,7 34 55 2 3 -3 5,2 0 1,5 -3 3-7 22 O 0 22 1 3 3.7 2; 44 3-6 1 30 59 ,9 - 0,1 5 - 9- >4 50 46,4 -5 12 52,1 0 1,4 12 50,7 22 26 0 22 -3 9.3 23 44 9,3 - 3 - 0 0 + 4>° S - 10. -4 53 36,7 -5 6 i8i 12 41,6 0 1,4 I 2 40,2 22 26 0 22 13 19,8 23 44 - 5>8 I 30 56,0 4 - 2,3 5- 11, -4 56 24,0 >5 7 55 1 >1 3 ->b 0 1,3 n 30,5 22 25 0 22 13 29-5 23 44 23,2 - 30 53.7 + 0,0 - - 12. -4 59 11,4 -5 6 34 1 7 23,- 0 0,8 7 22,3 22 21 c 22 1 3 37-7 23 44 Z ->4 1 30 53,7 + 26 x - -3- -5 2 2 , 1 -5 33 -6L 3 - - 4 >- 0 3,5 31 io,6 22 45 c 22 13 49,4 23 44 40-5 I 3O 5-.> 0 -- -4- -5 4 52,7 >5 16 54 12 i,z 0 i,z IZ 0,0 22 26 c 22 14 0,0:23 44 50,3 Mean Rate of the Watc - 3° 5°.3 h's gaining 1,2
ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS. - 5 Observations at the Cape of Good Hope, Continued. Comparisons of the Transit Instrument with equal Altitudes. 1772. Time of the G's Transit by the Clock C. Clock B before C. Time of the G's Transit by the Clock B. Time of apparent Noon by the equal Altitudes. O transits after Noon. Horizontal Error of the Instrument. H ' / If H ' H ' " ✓ s Nov. 4, 14 36 57-30 0 24,46 14 37 21,76 14 37 2,4 19,36 14 5 1 h - 7- i4 44 27,31 1 3,9 6 14 45 31,27 14 45 13,8 17,47 14 of Altered the Instrument. D - 9- 14 49 21,54 1 33,00 14 50 54,54 14 50 46,4 8,14 6 43 y. -12. *4 57 16,95 2 i,94 14 59 18,89 14 59 n,4 7,49 6 28 ¥ -- *3- H 59 55-09 2 12,7 1 5 2 7,79 15 2 2,1 5, 6 9 4 59 h 14- 15 2 35,85 2 23,5 >5 4 59,35 15 4 52,7 6,65 5 55 Of the Dip of the Magnetic Needle. The dipping Needle which we took on shore at this place was so much out of balance, and so difficult to get in again, that, notwithstanding we both of us spent all the leisure time we had from other observations, we did not get it perfectly adjusted before we went away; and of course were not able to get any observations of that kind at this time.
16 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS. Observations made at Dusky Bay, in New Zealand. 1 773* O April 4. 10. 11. 1 6 , "7- 18. Equal Altitudes. Times by Clock B. Lower Wire. Middle Wire. Upper Wire. H ' " / *' 59 58 4 3 22 22 4 I 18 1 10 22 4 25: 8 26 10 5i 4 7 34 14 55 11 39f 45 471 2 r 48 45f 49 26 52 3° 4 21 22 7 3° 8 14 11 24 21 25 22 24 45 25 29 28 49 27 38 4 24 13 3 1 41 28 22 44 53- 4 41 46 48 44 45 371 3 36 5 0 35 7 19 4 19 14 38: 23 18 26 -9 16 23 9 35 52f 39 55i 22 39 12 43 "i 5 2 23: Zenith Distance. Time of apparent Noon by the Clock. o ' " H ' " 6 31$ 2 6 7 M 8 26 5* 46? 28 5 Z2 7 20 48 25 4 I 21 22 15 27 4 to 58 16 47 42 25s 46 27 20 20 } 65 f 65 166 166 o | 72 20 J 69 40 ] 6 7 7 20 20 |6 7 J 69 40 ^ 72 20 20 o 20 71 o o 4 36-4 8 20,0 1 26 50,9 1 49 l 7>5 1 53 4,75 5 374 5 2 23^ 59 9 9 40 6 24 I 3 11 The Clock stopped a few seconds in winding up. 23 828 19. 9 r6z 37 43' 41 41 r2 53- 4 39 57 - 22 40 57r 44 55i 68 40 55 44 io 48 11 1 168 'I' o 2 20 I 56 41,9 Phenomena and Remarks. o's U. L. o's l. tl ! EaM y- " } Westerly. O's L. L. o's U. L. o'sLbi E ^ O : s fe: L' 1 Westerly. O '8 U. L.l o's L. L. O's U. L. O's L. L. 1 O's U. L. I O 's L. L J ^•Easterly. y Westerly. O's L. L.q O's U. L. O's L. L. O's U. L. O's L. L. o's U. L.J O's l! l" iEasterly. o 's L. L. O's O's U. L. U. l! } Westerly. o'sL. lJ Easterl >'- S : s fe: t: 5 Westerly. o'AEblE^- Westerly. O's L. L. O's U. L. 0'sL.'L.| EaBerl r-
ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS 17 Observations at Dusky Bay, Continued. 1 773- L April 19. 20. 21. 24. 2 5- Equal Altitudes, Times by Clock B. Lower Wire. Middle Wire. H n 11 71 23 14 41 15 Zr 19 12 44 53 4 4i 14 49 20 45 45 18 44 5 15 29 22 39 *9 28 38 45f 22 41 57 42 40 45 54 23 25 27 16 16 19 §4 5 l 44 s 4 48 _ I 7 2 52 35 5 22 8| 29 16 26 4i 26 * 5 i IO 30 28s 3 1 27 35 484 §7 24: 14 53 2 36:! 58 24 Upper Wire. 18 19 22 s°l Zenith Distance. 37 36 42 9 168 ~h 2 20 16 12 45 8 49 9 - Iy ** c 68 40 23 32 •> \73 44 29s 49 0 18 54s 22 54 34 471 40 14s 48 364 54 41 } 68 I 73 } 66 | 66 40 o l ime of apparent Noon by the Clock. H 2 O 29,65 4 i7> 8 12 44 41,7 Phenomena and Remarks O's U. L. O's L. L. o's L. | Easterly. o : sL:L:t WcM r- O's U. L. ) O's U. L. O s L. L. O's U. L. O's L. L. Easterly. O s Li, L. O's U. L. o s L. L, O's U. L. O's U. L. O s J~j. L. By Mr. Kendall's Watch. ©b: h: 1 WeIlcrl > r - > Westerly. ^ Easterly. In these last Observations the time was noted by the Watch made by Mr. Kendall, the Clock having been taken down on the 2ad. Meridian Zenith Distances of the Sun and Stars. Interior Arch. Exterior Arch. 0 G S V 51 37 10 55 0 8 + 1 j 51 33 34 54 3 3 l + 24 54 24 28 58 0 4 + 2C 51 33 10 54 3 3 1 -1- 2 I 0 5 2 54 0 3 24 - 24 23 Q 0 24 2 5 + 6 55 §0 56 59 2 9 + 26 55 40 20 59 1 >7 + 22 5i 33 14 54 3 3i + 18 0 53 4 0 3 26 0 8 5 16 8 2 -7 + 20 22 59 3 8 - 5 6 22 14 mo 0 17 + 20 | 177 3- D April 5. $ - 6 . o- 11. u ¥ 1 5- 16. 18. S 2 " 29 96 3 0 35 30 13 30 18 3° *9 30 18 29 99 30 4 29 98 29 97 29 96 29 96 29 95 a o 6 ID -G h 54 5 1 54 5° 5° 48s 53 5 8 49 4 H 48 471 584 Phenomena and Remarks. O's U. L. Procyon. G's L. L. Procyon. y Navis plane of the Quadrant West. j3 Navis above the L'ole. O *s L. L. O's U. L. Procyon. y N avis | pj ane 0 £ Qu^rant East, (3 ■ - - above the Pole. O's U. L.
ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS. 18 Observations at Dusky Bay, Continued. 1773* Meridian Zenith Distances of the Sun and Stars. J Barom. Thermom, ' " G S V O April 18. 5 i 33 28 55 0 0 4 - 10 29 90 52 0 53 26 0 3 24 - 10 29 90 5*4 8 5 50 8 2 16 - 9 29 90 I* 1 3 22 59 38 24 2 4 + 4 29 90 5 °f L - 21. 8 5 40 8 2 15 0 29 65 46 22 59 18 24 2 3 + 20 29 65 45 if - 22. 58 1 6 41 62 O 21 + *9 29 67 53 0 52 45 0 3 25 0 29 65 45 8 5 21 8 2 '7 + 22 29 66 45 Phenomena and Remarks. Procyon. I ^ aV ^ S | Plane of the Quadrant West. (3 -* above the Pole. -k Navis plane of the Quadrant West. D-above the Pole. O *s L. L. ^ aV ' S | Plane of the Quadrant East. In making the above Observations, I estimated the seconds on both arches by the eye, on account of a defect; in the tangent screw of the astronomical quadrant, or the apparatus which carries it, I could not discover which; the screw being liable, sometimes, to turn half way round without altering the vernier. N. B. This is the fame quadrant which Captain Cook and Mr. Green used at Otaheite, and possibly got injured when in the hands of the natives ; if this was the cafe, it is highly probable that the disagreement in their meridian zenith distances (See p. 406, Philosophical Transactions, vol. LXI.) arose from this cause. Lunar Observations for the Longitude of the Place. 17 73 - L April 14. Time by the Clock. H 7 42 9 37 13 10 16 7 18 31 21 2 21 34 44 3 8 30 40 12 41 44 44 0 Distance o and D 's Limbs. 1 35 i 1 45 ° 45 77 57 30 77 57 o 77 56 77 56 1 o 43 46 45 45 o 44 3 ° 44 3 ° 43 0 + 78 78 + + o o 39 ! 3 °i Zenith Double Distance Alt. of g v's L. L. O'sL.L. w E o -a h Longitude East. 54 35 45 55 3 i 55 57 19 45 Corrections of the Quadrants. 29,99 52 166 27 45 29,99 52 .1 66 24 45 Corrections of the Quadrants. Ditto 29,94 5L 166 18
ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS. 19 Observations at Duiby Bay, Continued. Lunar Observations. 1773- h April 17. iS. Time by the Clock. Distance 0 and i's Limbs. Zenith Distance 5 's L. L. Double Alt. of o'sL.L. Barom H ' " o , - U t " O 21 48 21 43 4i 45 45 30 0, 52 34 4i 15 *'451 1 9Q"n A 54 Z8 40 30 2 45 ( 56 4 6 40 0 44 54 *5 J + 0 36I + 12 Corrections ot the 0 32 25 42 53 0 46 36 0 60 47 j 37 24 5® 15 47 5 30 6* 25 j 39 22 50 0 *5 45 01 40 29 95 41 36 50 0 27 30 6i 541 44 24 48 45 43 45 62 12 J 55 23 46 0 48 51 0 63 29' 1 58 6 45 0 49 7 0 63 47 | 1 0 20 43 45 26 0 64 5 k 29 95 3 16 43 0 41 0 64 14 5 23 42 3® 54 15 64 25- + 12 / // - IO 15 Correctio 19 18 38 60 30 0 74 *6 15) 23 58 32 0 73 26 of 29 87 27 45 33 0 72 50 15( 3' 33 34 0 72 12 oj 35 25 36 0 71 37 0- 40 4 37 0 70 52 30/ 43 *4 37 3° 70 23 15^ 29 87 46 22 39 0 69 55 ot 49 24 40 30 69 26 0] - 15 + 12 Corrections of the H sr ft 3 O 3 5*£ Longitude East. 166 24 3 58 58 166 4 xof 166 24 55s 43 43 165 l8 2l 16 5 *4 45 The mean of all these Observations gives If the Observations of the r's distance from the Longitude of the Observatory 166 0 2 46 z " Aquilae be rejected, it will be 166 0 18' 9" East. 1? v i" t g'} y) G
20 Astronomical observations. Observations at Dusky Bay, Continued. 1 Observations for finding the Variation of the Compass. * 773 * h April 17, 19, 21 Zenith Dist. O's U. L. Azimuth of the o's center. 8 Z 2. N. 17 35 E. I? 25 17 30 17 20 17 o Double Altit. of the o's L, L. Variation East. 56 20 56 29s 56 36 ?I2 Z 84 56 45 56 52 £4 t. =4 £* " rt 15 lZ 254 Correction of the Quad.-f. o 34^ 80 304 N. 47 55 e *1 79 4 °I 46 25 I 79 18 45 30 78 54 45 25 78 404 47 o 70 364N. 34 35 E. 7° 16 35 15 69 574 33 50 69 424 34 1° 69 174 32 20 69 264N.60 ioW.q 69 464 60 4Z I O £ 70 of 60 30 1 70 14 60 50 f 43 o 70 274 61 o 70 434 64 s d -j- 12" Correction of the Quad. *** Between every one of these Observations, except those in the first set, I turned the compass quite round, sometimes one way,,and sometimes the other; a precaution which, I am convinced from experience, is necessary to be taken by those who would obtain the true quantity of the variation by an azimuth compass on shore. 14 Observations of the Dip of the Magnetic Needle. Face c Instru East. f the ment. West. Q * Q * $ April 13. /I 5 7 ° 45 70 20 70 20 70 35 70 0 70 40 70 214 Changed the Poles. 7 ° 45 7 1 35 70 0 71 0 70 15 7 1 5 ° --19. 68 10 69 35 68 0 69 30 69 26 70 42 Alteredthe balancing. 69 20 69 35 69 5 69 0 70 10 69 0 69 3 *t 69 114 F --20. Changed the Poles. O O 1^ 7 ° 5 69 35 69 5 69 0 68 55 70 10 70 30 S - 21. 7 2 5 71 10 72 5 7 i 35 7 o 394 70 rg 4 70 44 70 74 Mean of 7 ° 5 'b the Net Means. Means; Means.' Means. Mean of all the means. The Needle was not readily balanced here; but it was done with much less trouble than at the Cape of Good Hope, owing, probably, to the change in the dip being less between that place and this than between that and England, or possibly from its having contracted less rust. .1
ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS. 21 Observations at Dusky Bay, Continued. ' Observations on the Tides. "773- Apparent Time. Time by the Clock. Water below a certain Mark. Remarks. , 1773- Apparent Time. Time by the Clock. Water below a certain Mark. Remarks. H ' " H ' F. I. H ' " H ' F. 1. £ April 6. 23 30 2 4 Bigh Water. h April 10. 4 25 4 5 8 - 7 2 44 6 ii 4 33 4 8 2 49 7 * 10 0 Low Water, Evening. 4 28 46 5 4i x 10 s Low Water. 10 li Ditto, Morning. 8 33 7 1 0 -ii 3 2 High Water, After#. 8 40 6 11 . 9 8 LowWater, Morning. 9 26 5 4 9 3 2 5 2 0 37 7 - 9 4° 4 ii 0 44 7 1 10 57 1 12 10J 2 10 High Water. 1 37 5 9 14 41 4 11 1 45 5 6 14 49 5 2 1 5* 5 3 14 5 6J 5 4 D -- 12. 2 42 52 4 IZ4 3 6 High Water, 21 58! 4 11 ' 6 33 5 3 22 20 4 6 6 40 5 6 22 36 4 0 6 50 5 9 22 45 3 8 V 7 57 7 2 23 1 35 O I7S 2 8 High Water, 9 4 LowWater, Morning. 1 CC 1 54 3 8 $ -13. 3 5 8 4 5 1 59 4 0 4 4 + 3 2 17 4 6 4 16 4 0 2 28 4 11 3 3 2 2 5 3 i 3 8 High Water, 10 6 Low Water. 5 45 4 0 10 58 4 4 6 2 4 3 11 11 3 11 6 14 4 5 11 26 3 6 21 13 6 7 r> 37 3 3 21 29 6 jo ii 27 ro 12 45f 2 6 High Water. 21 42 7. 1 13 50 3 3 22 22 51 0 0^ 8 10 Low Water. j 14 4 3 6 L-14. 2 23 7 1 14 21 3 11 2 34 6 10 '+ 36 4 4 2 48 6 7 * •7 37 47 t8 56} 10 c Low Water, 4 30 4 10 23 9 4 6 4 40 4 7 23 16 4 4 4 52 + 4 j 23 22 4 2 6 29 3 6 High Water, *3 Z- 311 4 50 11 8 4 4 4 2 3 53 *9 1 12 1 2 8 High Water. 8 19 4 7 ? - 9- r 55 3 11 8 29 4 10 1 3 3 4 2 n - 15. 3 11 High Water. 3 9 4 4 0 25 7 3 3 16 4 6 0 31 7 5 10 6 Low Water, Evening. 0 47 7 9 to 1 Low Water, Morning. r --16. O 44. 2C z 3°r 8 4i Low Water. Tins forenoon the tube got moved out of it* 4 10 7 9 place by some means or other; I replaced it, 4 28 7 5 and then made the following Observations. 4 4° 7 3 23 46 4 8 ?o 7 4 1 23 57 4 5 20 2; 3 10 O 17 3 i° 19 20 55 21 9! 3 7 High Water. h - JO. 0 46 23 2 9 J 2 10 High Water. 21 51 3 10 4 0 3 10 22 I; 4 1 -■1 1. 1 N
22 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS. Observations at Dusky Bay, Continued. Observations on the Tides. 1773 - Apparent Time. Time by the Clock. Water below; certain Mark. p~T Remarks. > 773 ' Apparent Time. Time by the Clock. Water below a certain Mark. Remarks. H ' ' H H ' " H ' F. I. I $ April 16. -3 45 S 4 j O 27 6 0 10 39 3 7 1 0 54. 6 6 11 16 3 4 h - 17 * l 47 33 3 37 i 8 5 Low Water. q ?6 io 11 ;8i 3 2 High Water. 6 20 6 6 12 33 3 4 6 42 6 0 i 3 5 3 7 7 -3 5 7 22 19 4 4 7 3 ' 5 4 22 46 4 0 7 5 ° 4 9 22 57 3 10 8 4 48 9 5 Sl 3 7 High Water. 22 20 48 0 Z4f s II High Water. 11 56 4 9 8 -21. 1 55 3 10 1 Z 20 5 4 2 5 4 0 12 3 9 5 7 2 27 4 4 13 12 6 0 4 4 ° 7 4 20 l6 4 9 4 52 7 6 20 Z2 4 5 4 30 14 6 3si 8 5 Low Water. 20 47 4 2 8 19 7 6 zo 14 40 -z 7 i 3 7 8 3 ° 7 4 z 3 25 4 - High Water. CI I4 3 7 23 40 4 5 11 z6 3 5 c> 3 + 9 >i 43 3 3 G - >8. 8 44 Low Water. IO 29 2 > 2 35 2 10 High Water. 3 6 High Water, Evening. 13 28 3 3 20 50 4 9 >3 42 3 5 21 13 4 4 13 57 3 7 ri 37 4 0 3 6 Low Water. 21 1 56 22 56J 3 5 High Water. 23 54 3 6 0 14 4 0 0 27 3 2 0 40 4 4 22 57 2 i 5 2 I® High Water. 1 4 4 9 > 45 3 - Made a new rod to my instrument, the former if --- 22 2 14 3 6 having, by accident, get broke, and the 7 Low Water. distance from the bottom of the stoat to the first 12 IO 3 7 division being shorter by if inches than in the 12 28 3 4 former this will give all distances of the water 12 42 3 - from the mark greater by that quantity. 11 Y 2 >3 '9-3 2 10 High Water. v - - 9 > 10 3 3 n >3 5 6 3 2 10 24 3 9 14 IO 3 4 9 >7 5 II 14* 3 si High Water. >4 3 ° 3 7 .2 5 3 9 17 26 36 ! 9 3 7 \ 8 Low Water, Morning. 1 2 .25 3 u 2 3 59 4 2 22 4 4 3 0 4; 3 7 22 26 3 I- 23 3 ° 8 I 42 3 0 High Water, 22 42 3 9 r ' -23- 2 38 3 7 21 41 32 23 4 -? 3 4 High Water. 3 26 4 2 0 37 3 9 8 8 Low Water, Evening 0 3 'I 3 1 High Water. 1 23 4 3 8 7 Low Water, Morning. f 8 6 Low Water. j? - 24 0 313 12 48 3 2 High Water.
astronomical observations. 23 -r-- Observations at Dusky Bay, Continued. Observations on the Tides. 1773* Apparent Time. Time by the Clock. Water below a certain Mark. Remarks. 1773- Apparent Time. Time by the Clock. Water below a certain Mark. Remarks. H ' " H ' F. k. H ' " F. J. h April 24, 13 10 3 4 0 April 25. u 45 4 6 >3 3S 3 7 12 15 4 O 5 12 7 8 v - - 26. 0 41 39 -3 264 : 3 6i High Water. 5 47 8 3 >4 35 4 0 IS 1 2 6 45* 8 6 Low Water. . 15 10 4 6 7 44 8 3 8 4 Low Water, Evening. 8 20 7 8 8 4 LowWater, Morning O- 8 5 Low Water. I made the preceding Observations by the help of a wooden tube, about 12 fee tlong and three inches square, which was placed upright in the water, and fixed firm to a large tree that hung over it. The tube had a small aperture at the bottom, whereby the water was admitted, so that the swell of the sea had little effect on the water in the tube; and the distance of the water from a mark on the top of the tube, was measured by a sienHer rod, divided into feet and inches, from the bottom upwards.
24 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS. Observations at Dusky Bay, Continued. The Latitude of Duiky Bay, deduced from Observations of the Sun and fixed Stars, when on the Meridian. Interior Arch. Exterior Arch. The error of the line of collimation, of the Quadrant, by a mean of the 1 10,2 Add. O 28,2 Subt* * By a mean of the four Observations of J Navis. 13,2 Add. Z2,2 Subt. The mean of two gives - 11,7 Add. 30,2 Subt. 1 773* Latitude by interior Arch. Latitude by exterior Arch. Declination. By Observations of the Sun. P April 5. 4; 47 z 45 4 6 37 6 7 32 0-11. 45 48 i2i 45 47 38 8 21 47! U- 15. 45 47 5§ ,45 47 34 9 4 8 37s ? -16. 45 47 5 6 * 45 47 33! 10 9 57 0 - 18. 45 47 44 45 47 3 6 £ 10 52 5! ■y. -- 22. 45 48 i?i 45 47 55 -2 14 134 Mean of all 45 47 5- *45 47 2 9 by the Sun. By Observations of Procyon. F - 6. 45 47 2 5§ 45 4 6 5 2 5 47 303^ 0- 11. 45 47 2 45 46 49i $ --16. 45 47 6 45 46 4 0-18. 45 47 z°i 45 47 5? Mean ot alt 45 47 x 3i 45 46 53i by Procyon. By Observations of jg Navis. 0--i 45 4 6 47 45 47 3* 68 47 11 S r - 16. 45 47 9i 0 - is. 45 47 i° 45 47 33 S - 21. 45 47 3° 45 47 43f 45 47 9 45 47 " 6 I by D Navis. 1 773* 0 April ii. r -- 16. ©- is. Of - 22. By Observations of y Navis. 45 48 0 45 47 45 47 18 45 47 45i 45 47 5 2 45 47 36 45 47 3 8 45 48 2 46 40 31s 45 47 377 45 47 47 Mean of all by y Navis. By Observations of i Navis. r ' 0 S % 16. 18 21 . 22 . Latitude by interior Arch. Latitude by exterior Arch. Declination. 45 47 35i 45 47 Z8i 45 47 2 4l 45 47 3 2 3 45 46 53i 45 47 5-3 45 47 I ll 45 47 26 45 47 37 47 2 9 a 45 47 24 i 53 5* South. South. Mean of all by H Navis. Ditto, y. Ditto, jg. Mean of all the Southern Observ. Mean of all by the Sun. Mean of all by Procyon. Mean of all by Northern Observ. Ditto, Southern Observations, Ditto of the two. And by taking the Mean of the two Arches, the Latitude is 450 47' Z 6|" South. * * Three double altitudes of the Sun's Limb, taken with Hadley's Quadrant from a quicksilver horizon, gave the Latitude of the Observatory 45 9 48' 44", 45 0 47' 30", and 45° 47' a$"i the mean of which is 45 0 47'^ South.
ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS 25 Observations at Dusky Bay, Continued. Computations of the Clock's Rate of going. 1773. Time of Noon by the Clock. Syderial Time of apparent Noon. Mean Time of apparent Noon. Clock fast of Syderial Time. Clock fast of mean Time. Clock gains on Syderial Time. Clock gains on mean Time. H ' " H ' " H ' " H ' " / " 5 April 5. $ - 6. 0- 11. h -- 17. 0-18. 5 - 19. $ - 20. L *- 2>. 1 4 3 6 .4 I 8 20,0 I 26 50,9 1 49 17,9 > 53 4-7 1 56 41,9 2 0 29,6 2 4 17,8 0 57 15.0 1 0 53-7 i 19 10,7 1 41 17,2 1 44 59.7 1 48 42,6 1 52 25,8 1 56 9-5 0 2 45,3 0 2 27,5 O I 2,0 23 59 29.5 2 3 59 15.4 *3 59 >-7 23 58 48,5 23 58 35>7 7 21,4 7 26,3 7 4°> z 8 0,7 8 5,0 7 59-3 8 3,8 8 8,z Mean gair i 151,1 1 5 52.5 1 25 48.9 1 49 48-4 1 53 49.3 1 57 40,2 2 1 41,1 2 5 42,1 of the Clock 0 4,9 0 2,8 0 3.4 0 4*3 Clock st( 0 4.5 0 4.5 0 4,066 4 i"4 3 59-3 3 59.9 4, o,9 pped. 4 o,9 4 1,0 4 0,566 Computations of the Rate that Mr. Kendall's Watch went at. 1773. Time of apparent Noon by the Clock. Time by Clock when the Watch was compared. Time from Noon by the Clock. Clock's gain on the Watch. Time from Noon by the Watch. Time by the Watch when compared. Time of apparent Noon by the Watch. Mean Time of apparent Noon. Watch flow of mean Time. Watch gains on mean Time. H ' " H ' " H ' " H ' " H ' " H ' " " S April 6. 1 8 20,c 1 30 0 2 1 40,0 3.6 ri 36,4 13 8 474 12 47 10,85 0 2 27,5 11 15 16,65 5,77 0- 11. 1 26 50,9 1 43 0 16 9,1 r.7 16 6,4 > 3 2 2oi; 12 46 14,1 0 1 1,9 ii 14 47,8 4? -17. > 49 17.5 I 59 0 9 42.5 1,6 9 40.9 12 55 12-5 12 45 31,85 23 59 29,5 11 >3 57.65 0- >8. > 53 4.7 2 28 0 34 55,3 5-8 34 49-5 13 20 125 12 45 23,0 23 59 >5-4 11 13 52,4 5.25 4,80 1) - 19. 1 56 4 I >5 2 I O 4 '8,1 ®>7 4 >7,4 12 49 3>? 12 45 14,1 23 59 i,7 ii 13 47,6 $ -- 20. 2 0 29,6 2 33 0 32 3°>4 5>4 32 25,0 '3 >7 34 12 45 9,0 23 58 48,5 11 >3 39-5 8,io 6,70 5,38 L -21. 2 4 >7.8 2 20 0 15 42,2 r,6 15 39> 6 >3 0 425 3y the Wat 12 45 2,9 ch itself, the 23 58 35.7 Clock being t i! 13 32,8 aken down 0 -- 25. 12 44 4>.7l >r 43 57.5 1 0 43,2 1°, 01 0 43"*l>2 43 57il>2 44 4>"7l 2 3 57 49,°l>> >3 7"3 The mean of all is 4,86 But if the first and last be taken only, the rate of the Watch will be gaining 6''8c8 on mean time each day. If a mean be taken of all the Comparisons which can be formed out of the above, its gain on mean time will be 6 ", 7 26 .
26 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS Observations at Dusky Bay, Continued. Computations of the Rate at which Mr. Arnold's Watch (No. 3.) went. 1773* Time of apparent Noon by the Clock. Time by Clock when the Watch was compared. Time from Noon by the Clock. Clock's gain on the Watch, Time from Noon by the Watch. Time by the Watch when compared. Time of apparent Noon by the Watch. Mean Time of apparent Noon. Watch stow of mean Time. Watch gains on mean Time. H " " H " " H ' " H ' " H ' " H ' " S April t>. I 8 20,0 1 30 0 21 40,0 5.13 21 34,87 9 35 5775 9 14 22,88 0 2 27,5 >4 48 4,62 0 - II. 1 26 50,9 1 43 0 16 9,1 3 > 7 8 16 ;,Z" 9 21 18,50 9 5 >3.'8 0 i 1,9 14 55 48.72 I T 0 , 6*7 b - >7 9 18,50 8 46 55.57 23 58 48,5 15 11 52>93 8 -- 21. 2 4 17,8 Z 20 O "s 42,2 3,61 -5 38,59 9 0 49,75 8 45 11,16 2Z S 8 35.7 IS 1 3 24.54 9 ' By Mr. Kendall's Watch, the Clock being taken down. 100,58 G-25- 12 44 41,7(1* 4J 57.5I 0 43,2(0, s| 0 43,15(8 37 0, o|8 37 43.15(23 57 49,0 15 20 6,85 The mean of all is 99,467 But if the first and last day's Observations be taken only, the gain of this Watch, each day, on mean time, will come out ioi",i 7. If a mean be taken of all the comparisons which can be formed out of the above Observations, its gain each day, on mean time, will be ioi",o§r.
ASTRONOMICAL OBSE R VAT I O N S 27 Observations at Queen Charlotte's Sound, in New Zealand, made by Mr. Bayley. *773- v April 19 20. 21 2Z 24 2 5 Equal Altitudes. Times by Clock marked C. Lower Wire 7 H 5 1 34 2 I 54 25 54 4 94 21 57 44 i 16 5°4 22 19 534 20 18 22 23 22s 33 1 22 36 11 36 374 22 39 49 i 6 47 5 10 23 5 7 Mi 23 5 5i 2 42 45 49 r 5 f *5i 3 ° 5i * 5 2 l 25 35 45 44 i 33 : 46- 45 46 26 3 ° 40 104 27s 39 26 30 4i 8± Middle Wire. 5 5 5 5 22 22 20 3 23 304 Of 5 8 23 5 39 32 5 42 55 i 23 J 5 M 23 19 i9i 23 25 14 23 29 31s 32 1 4 7 55 11 21 36 34s 39 58s 18 48 36 17 42 10 4 4 4 4 46 I 7 f 22 29 444 22 33 1 5 23 23 15 s 59 5 1 5 o 16 5 4 7 5 32 49 22 29 43 s 22 33 13 s 22 42 26 22 46 3f Upper Wire. Zenith Distance 57 J 9 i o 35: 22 574 39 22 4 4 | 17 58 20 284 . 42 45 28 59s 33 19 * 28 144 32 34 42 43 f 32 49 5 3 1 - 33 14 : 32 471 36 i9r 49 Mi } 75 25 } 7 1 23 168 55 I } 68 55 } 71 23 ?75 25 I 174 J 65 48 ^ 64 3° I | 64 30 | 65 48 j 72 54 168 11 I ^ 68 11 H 72 54 \73 30 } 7 i 35 20 o 20 Transit over the Meridian H 1 5 1 §6,5 1 54 I 3>oi 2 o 59,9 3 16,9 Phenomena and Remarks. O's U.L.~ O 's L. L. o'sU.L. , O's L. L. K Easter, 7. O's U. L. o's L. L.. O's L. L.q O'sU. L. O's L. L. I O's U. LJ Li! ^r. r . o's L. L. o' O s U. L. ■" ©•sU.L.'f Eaft ' r ') s - O's L. L.J o s L. La O S U. Ll [ TTT /J 1 O'S L. L>Westerly. o'sU. L. O's U. L. ? Flying 1 O's L. L. J Clouds, (t-. , O'sU.L. > Easterly. O s L. L. j O's L. L. o o o o's U. L. o's L. O's U. O's L. L.a J O J-<" Uin D's U. L. / D's L.L.f 3 's U. L.J . L.. • L. / . L.r . L.J Cloudy. Westerly. Easterly.
23 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS Observations by Mr. Bayley, at Queen Charlotte's Sound, Continued. Zenith Distance. Transit over the Meridian. ® , - H ' ' " 1 773 * O April 25. D - - - 26 . 23 56 5 14 zH 5 " 171 * 8 *9 5 *5 3 5 24 37 5 28 15 40 3 ° 5 37 25s 43 59 f 5 40 55 , 27 28 29 30 Ec^ual Altitudes. limes by Clock C. Lower Wire. Middle Wire. Upper Wire. H 22 55 38s 22 59 24^ 58 2 44 7 55 i 11 45 f 21 265 j 69 I } 69 17 } 40 40 1 35 73 30 ..37 50 3 ut the Clock 12 minutes forward. 54 48 8 58 3 i 4 2 16 24 3 ° 14 20 48 17 4 21 48 i 9 24 234 26 57 i 8 544 17 6 20f 3 45 i 42 53 22 45 58 49 34 46 24I 22 49 294 52 35 i 3 5 ° 23 7 6 10 22 7 32 f 23 10 5°4 14 94 3 i 43 i 5 28 26 25 7 35 26 5 32 10 28 53 52 51s 5 49 451 46 38 56 21 5 53 17 5 ° 11 22 45 48I 48 554 46 I 3 i 22 49 20f 52 26 58 12 23 1 24 1 49 4 . 23 5 2f } 68 17° b May 46 40 5 ° 17 2 14 5 43 48 16 5 1 46| 1 35 5 12 Si 1 . 52 35 56 11 6 o 9 29 5 43 29 5 47 6 5 59 6 2 4: r22 51 22 22 54 53 23 4 48 23 8 26| 5 49 21f 5 53 2 6 2 Zz 6 6 252 1 59 34 * 58 if 7 59 r 11 41 I ? 7 * I* } 74 40 } 75 o }73 0 46 7 49 48 ! 59 46 3 19 173 175 20 70 20 o 73 27 } 74 40 72 20 o 20 2 5 34,44 11 39 39> 6 13 15 21,64 2 19 51,8 Phenomena and Remarks. O's U. L. G'sL. L ; | Easterly. O's L. L. O's U. L. o : su.b WeM r- o'sL.L. I o'sU.L.J (3 Leonis, East. Ditto, West. Spica Virginis, East. Ditto, West. O'sU.L.' o- s u±: E ^- o's L. L., o's L. L. o'sU. L.( O's L. L.( O's U. L. G's U. L.-% O s L. L. I O'sU. L.f O's L. L.J Westerly. Easterly. 2 24 29,03 o o 2 29 6,95 o's L. L. 1 g :s sE:l: Wester1 ^ o'sU. L. j O's U. L.-j :-su.L L : Ea H. O's L.L. J O's L. L.-" g'sU.L.1 O's L. L. f O's U. L.J Westerly.
ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS 29 Observations by Mr. Bayley, at Queen Charlotte's Sound, Continued. Equal Altitudes. Times by Clock C. Transit over the Meridian. Zenith Distance. Phenomena and Remarks. Lower Wire. Middle Wire. Wire. b May 1. 55 3 Easterly, 44 5 Westerly, " Centauri, East, 55 57 Easterly, 28 21 Westerly, 21 31 '* | Westerly. Put the Clock 20 minutes forward. 4 52 o'sU L* j^sterly. Spica Virginis, East. 50 33 24 . 28
astronomical observations 30 J Observations by Mr. Bay ley, at Queen Charlotte's Sound, Continued. l 773 - Transits of the Sun, Moon, and Stars, Meridian. Time by the Clock C. over the Phenomena and Remarks. First Wire. Second Wire. Middle Wire. Fourth Wire. Fifth Wire. / ' " H " " ✓ " F April 20. Having fixed up the Tran it Instrument, 1 levelled the axis, adjusted the line of collimation, and directed it, zy means of the horizontal adjusting screw, to a very good mark on an island to the Northward. S - 21. 51 53 52 35- 1 53 i24 54 14 G's First L. 54 46-4 1 55 294 56 12- 56 544 G's Second L. These Observations being compared with the time of noon deduced from equal al- titudes, shew that the Instrument was 10",67 in time West of the true meridian. ? - 2Z. Moved the Instrument very near the true meridian, where it accidentally cut two very good marks one about a mile and quarter to the Northward, and the other about 4 f miles to the Southward. By these two marks the Instrument was generally examined before every Observation in the day-time. h -24. 58 28s 59 10 4 1 59 544 0 37 0 's ist L. \ By these the Instrument is 0", 6. I 21-4 2 2 54 2 4-8-4 3 3°t 0'" 21I L. j Ealt ot the true meridian. O 1 0 44s I 264 2 2 10- 2 55 0's ist L. \ These make the Inst'-umenti",1 2 4 22- 5 44- 5 47 t 0 's rd L. J East of the true meridian. v -26. 3 5*1 3 434- 2 4 274 5 *04 0 's ist L. 7 Instrument East of the me 5 56- 2 6 39 7 22- 8 44 0 's rd L. 5 ridian. 15 214 5 16 74- 6 524 1 's ist Limb. 32 424 5 33 244- 34 7 " Orionis. 7 21 49- Pollux. Put the Clock 12 Minutes forward. 57 494 9 58 32- 59 x6- Regulus. j8 124 38 554 11 40 224 41 54 (3 Leonis. Instrument o",Z4 East. l 4 5 1 ! 12 16 22- •7 5 °t * Crucis. >3 574 >4 39- 13 15 224 16 54 x6 454- SpicaVirginis. Instrument 0 ", 44 East of Itden'd. 29 52 + 13 31 124 32 334 " Eridani: below the Pole. 5 52 f 6 36 14 7 214 8 6 + 8 50; Arcturus. 14 26 274 " Centauri. 29 11 + x 3° 3 1 3 1 51-r " Eridani: above the Pole. $ -27. 17 20- 18 14 2 18 45! 19 284 0's ist Limb. 20 134 2 20 574 21 404 22 23 0's 2d Limb. 4 24 2| Aldebaran. 3 20 4 1 + 5 4 44- 5 26 6 74 Rigel. +2 324 43 14- 5 43 564 44 384- 45 204 * Orionis. 17 47- 1831s 6 19 164- 20 2 20 464 D 's ist Limb : very good. 6 36 9 Syrius. 7 20 574 Castor. - 27 39 + 7 28 22 29 4 Procyon.
ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS. 3* Observations by Mr. Bay ley, at Queen Charlotte's Sound, Continued. ' 773 - $ April 27 28. 29 r -3° h May i, Transits of the Sun, Moon, and Stars, over the Meridian. Times b y ! the Clock C. Fourth Wire. First' Wire. / ✓/ $5.39 *' 36 44+ '9 37 9 -304 • 21 55 f "f* M I 38^ 33 464 26 34 3° 49 28 53i Second Wire. 3i 32f ; 2i + 37 -27- 27 41s 20 19+ 22 31-^ 10 144 22 374 '5 474 32 3'v 17 I4t 24 4"f 2 21 + 6 35 34 29Z 10 25! *3- 16- *5 3 ' ^5 26s 20 36- '5 3 27 16+ 25 38- 3 374 47- 34v 5° 2 5i 31 3'4 2 9 351 35 494 Middle Wire. H i< 7 32 204 9 " 334 9 17 17+ 9 5'6 594 3:8 n- 1 29 2f 2 21 3- 2 23-5 7 ii o 2 23 214 2 25 1 33t 6 16 574 33 "4 18 44 25 24 29 23 3 1 8 30+ 14 19 + 6Z 35 '3 + 12 ii 55 + 12 16 28 + 12 32 22 + 13 26 46Z 14 22 O l8 16 11 ^ 21 6 i 6 i 24 35 i 28 o 30 i2i 3 ° 1 4 26 26+ . 5 344 9 48 I 7 t 9 51 9 + 11 1 23 6f 2 30 20 2' 32 32I 5 36 324 6 7 7 7 8 9 9 9 54 11 r 2 2 6 7 9 33 57 48- 38 54* 30 22f 21 46 + 23 5H " 454 26 174 18 64 33 54 f 18 54i 26 64 3 5 '" 10 25- 35 564 '3 '44 '7 42* 33 42 71 24+ 2tf 28 23 l 7 30 564 27 24- 7 32 49 2 - 51 524 32 59! 33 '54 37 '5- 1 Fist It Wire. 58 30- 39 37i 24 4 'i i2 30 26 594 -- -r - 34 38- 4 35f 36 39z 384 33 42 33 584 Phenomena and Remarks. Pollux. (3 Navis: .above the Pole. " Hydrae. - 0 Regulus, (3 Leonis. * Eridani: above the Pole. ©'s 1 st L. ©'s 2 d L. t's istL. o's ist L. ©'s id L. Canopus: above the Pole. Syrius. Castor. Procyon. Pollux. "'5 ist L. {3 Navis : abovfe the Pol-. " Hydrae. Regulus. (3 Leonis. ot Crucis. y -. P * Eridani: below the Pole. * Centauri. Canopus : below the Pole. f3 Navis : below the Pole. * Eridani: above the Pole. o's 1 st L. ©'s 2d L. Syrius. Pollux. f3 Navis : above the Pole. j's ist Limb : good. Regulus. (3 Leonis. a. Eridani: ©'s ist L. 0's 2d L. x Orionis. above the Pole. K
ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS 32 Observations by Mr. Bayley, at Queen Charlotte's Sound, Continued. *773* O May 2 ■4 Transits of the Sun, Moon, and Stars, over the Meridian. Time by the Clock C. First Wire. 48 1 5 i 3 1 *4 6 . CTW +■ C\ O + 18 14- 55 32 - 33 34 - 5 3 ' + 4 24 0 38s 30 27- 25 371 7 47 38 18s 29 j4- Second Wire. 10+ 10 4 i 31 7i 57~ 18 46s 4'4 28 + 35 53i 19 33l 56 15s '4 40 - Middle Wire. H 9 4 9 9 9 10 41 2 32 2 7 7 9 9 9 I r II 34 19 23 2 8 48 29 36 7+ 53- 5 1 4i 53i 29s 28 + 37 24+ nf i8i 37+ 13 20 54+ 14 57 0+ 14 16 4+ Fourth Wire. 6 10 50 42 3- 35*" 23s 33f 35 20 37 + 11 + 9 48 64 55- 9 484 49 37+ 9 8 - 18 10 18 59 58 21 1 53 21 6 20 34 17 2 35 1* 2 37 *4" 7 18 0+ 21 11 - 7 21 59s 27 46 8 28 58 59 "4 9 ' 9 6 13- 9 6 56- 46 0- 9 46 43 36 39- 2 37 23- 2 39 36- 4 44 + 9 5 27 + 1 20- 13 2 3- ' -- - ' " '3 '7 55 31 19 + '3 3 1 53 53 '74 '3 54 2t II 43- '4 '3 7 26 19s '4 27 3s '5 5' - 1 17 "4 2 12 22 39 of 2 39 45 + 2 41 58* 29 55 5 3° 38 37 22 57 '7 11 20- 14s 45i 28 + 28 22 224 - 58 29- 3 5 1- 37 58 22 47- 3° 9f 3 5- 7 38- 47 264 40 19s 6 9i 2 46- 32 37 54 47t '4 3 J + 27 47 + 18 31s 42 43 + Fifth Wire. 51 6- 36 20 38 41 8 20- 6 51 i 3 27 + 33 1 9t 28 30- 43 25 + 32 if Phenomena aud Remarks. P Navis: above the Pole. " Hydrae. Regulus. J's ist Limb: very good. O's istL. O's 2d L. Procyon. Pollux. (3 Navis: above the Pole. x Hydrae. Regulus. (3 Leonis. H'sift Limb: good. * Eridani: below the Pole. Arcturus. * Centauri. Instrument o",2Z East. Canopus: below the Pole. (3 Navis, Ditto. jc Navis, Ditto. D's 1 st L. q's rd L. Procyon. Pollux. J 1 0 J Navis: above the Pole, * Hydrae. Regulus. O's 1 st L. O's rd L. " Hydrae. Spica Yirginis. - Eridani: below the Pole. j's ist Limb : good. Arcturus. above the Pole. x Centauri a Librae. se Eridani: -r Centauri o *s 1 st L. 0*s 2d L. % Orionis. above the Pole. : below the Pole.
ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS. 33 Observations by Mr. Bayley, at Queen Charlotte's Sound, Continued. *773- V May 6. 5* 5- Zl 3°4 8 . Transit of the Sun, Moon, and Stars, over the Meridian. Times by the Clock C. First Wire. 18 25- 40 40 49 36- 12 - 9 17 23- 36 54s 48 6- 21 9T 7 42f *5 53- 58 74 Second Wire. 14 20+ 18 14 - §6 iz4 3 *5 19 8 + 59 51 + 15 6- 5* 49- 32 I3t 3 *9t 55 29 + 14 22 41 23- 9 18 37 12 43 58- 4 384 524 46 12 8- 48 50- : I 5 I-y 8 29- 58 53- 41 254 Middle Wire. H Fourth Wire. 6 7 7 8 8 9 11 *3 l 3 1 3 14 20 20 1 2 2 *3 *3 1 5 1 5 l 5 1 2 2 8 12 *3 *3 H *5 "5 15 16 6 15 5 58 19 o 16 52 32 4 57 *5 42 44 14 5* 10 18 38 14 44 46 23 57 13 49 22 9 27 59 42 8 37- 3- 254 11 + 5 1 34- 26- 34- 58 s 40- 25 + 43- 7 20-4 57 44 454 464 2z4 1 3 3° 44- 02 344 2 7t 34t 36- 16 + 1 7 40+ "14 28 l 5 l 9 45 49" o 4 20 l l 7 53 33 6 59 *7 7 40- 35- 16 4 47 18 -4- 42-f 2 - 22-4- 2 Fifth Wire. 21 18 54 2 t 34 21- 45 4i 5 1 11 *9 39 l 5 49i 33+ 29- 84 33+ 47 2 7t 14 50 23 10 17 49 i 9t *9? 3 4 59 42 56I 26- 6 Put the Clock 20 Minutes forward. 3 6 54 7 3 °- J 7 18 6- 1 4 4il 58 334 15 2Z4 3 9 9 -3 *3 9 "9 59 16 3 1 58 9 20 o 5o4 12- 45 48- 52 33- i 2 194 20 104 39 524 51 4- 24 2 10 494 18 41 + . 1 124 10 34 20 Z4- 7 3 1 - Phenomena and Remarks. Canopus : above the Pole. Procyon. Pollux. 0 | Navis : above the Pole. * Hydrae. (3 Leonis. Spica Virginis. * Eridani: below the Pole. Arcturus. Ps ist Limb: good. jg | Navis: below the Pole. * Eridani: above the Pole. O's ist L. O's 2 d L. * Eridani: below the Pole. Arcturus. a Cor. Lor. " Serpentis. >'s 2 d L. * Eridani: above the Pole. O 5 s ist L. O's 2 d L. i Navis : above the Pole. Spica Virginis. * Eridani: below the Pole. Arcturus. a Librae. a Cor. Lor. a Serpentis. Antares. D's 2 d Limb : good. a Ophiuchi. o's istL. O's 2 d L. a Hydrae. Regulus. Spica Virginis. a Eridani: below the Pole.
34 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS Observations by Mr. Bayley, at Queen Charlotte's Sound, Continued. r?7Z- O May 9 >6 isi 34 2 4+ 2 5 334 3 45 f io. 1 1. 12 Transits of the Sun, Moon, and Stars, over the Meridian. Time by the Clock C. TTrlF Wire. 7 5° 4 Z6 r6 14 54 544 >3 4'4 22 364 Second Wire. Middle Wire. H 7 21 26 59I 26 16- 4 294 8 23 22 *7! 39 52- l 7 ^4 5 28 27 Navis : below the Pole. <3J O's First L. O *s Second L. Syrius. Procyon. Pollux. s Navis: above the Pole.
astronomical observations 35 Observations by Mr. Bayley, at Queen Charlotte's Sound, Continued. Transits of the Sun, Moon, and Stars, Meridian. Times by the Clock C. over the 1 First Wire. Second Wire. Middle Wire. Fourth Wire. Fifth Wire. / H " ' " 35 54 8 37 6 38 i7f 9 9 174 H 204 9 15 34 '5 454 54 6s 9 54 504 55 334 >7 22 324 15 47 18 16 554 18 5 Z6 32 44 4 '9 33 2 74 34 IOf *74 36 594 l 9 37 424 38 244 39 64 41 264. l 9 42 84 42 5 I i vo 54 234 20 55 64 55 494 2Z 57 64 20 57 5°4 58 34 59 *7 21 8 29 21 39 i5f 5i 15 21 5i 574 52 394 15 5t *5 481 3 16 33r 18 474 19 324 20 15s 39 3i 5 40 134 40 56 rZ 24 6 16 124 *7 217 8 15 if 8 35 35 4 8 5 1 4"4 9 7 46 11 It 9 12 14 13 254 5 6 36 564 9 38 324 4 o 84 51 52 37 4 9 53 21 f 54 44 54 474 lO 3 1 594 ic> 33 237 32 55t 8 34 7t 35 18 9 6 18 9 10 45 84 9 37 3r 5i 9 5i 524 52 354 10 3° 304 to 3l 534 10 32 394 43 334 10 44 174 45 i4 l 773 ' 8 May 12. ■4 *3 14 Phenomena and Remarks. p ^ Navis: above the Pole. " Hydrae. Regulus. Aquilae. v Aquarii. i *s 2d Limb: good. J N avis: below the Pole* " Aquarii. O's istL. O's ed L. " Orionis. Canopus. ►Navis: above the Pole] Regulus. -1 Navis: above the Pole . 1 H er :J Regulus. 1 "i > Navis: above the Pole, l* J " Crateris.
z6 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS. Observations by Mr. Bayley, at Queen Charlotte's Sound, Continued. 1 773 * Transits of the Sun, Moon, and Stars, Meridian. Times by the Clock C. over the Phenomena and Remarks. First Wire. Second Wire. Middle Wire. Fourth Wire. Fifth Wire. H ' " ' ✓/ r May 14. 3 * 59 l 20 33 10 34 214 £ Navis: below the Pole*. 21 9 484 " 4 h - 15. 20 46 7 21 281 22 io| Procyon. 8 32 26| F Navis: above the Pole. 8 59I 9 4 °t 9 *0 234 ** 54 11 474 " Hydras. 33 45 - 9 35 224 36 584 u Navis: above the Pole. 9 5 ° *°4 Regulus, v - 17. *3 4 *4 Spica Virginis. *3 56 1 Arcturus. 28 39-i- 29 204 19 3 ° 4 t 3 ° 464 31 28 " Aquilae. 22 35 13I Fomalhaut. 53 4*4 0 54 244 55 8| "'s 2d L. 1 19 14: " Eridani: above the Pole. OO I *6 27 11 2 7 54 f 3 28 39s 29 244 Q *s ist L. 3 ° 94 3 3 ° 55 3 * 394 32 234 O 9 s 2d L. 5 *34 9 5 56 6 384 " Hydrae. 44 1 7 -? 44 594 9 45 434 46 264 47 84 Regulus. 25 23 26 54 11 26 494 2 7 33 i8 164 (3 Leonis. 12 8 4§ p | Crucis. 2 2 364 12 23 58 25 *94 1 74 * 49 - 13 2 324 3 *41 3 564 Spica Virginis. *3 54 3*4 Arcturus. 12 ii| *4 *3 36 *4 59 L a, Centauri. 22 24 20 24 35I 25 94 0 Navis. 32 6§ 32 54 20 33 434 34 324 35 204 Fomalhaut. 16 204 1 17 4>4 19 1 " Eridani: below the Pole. 8 -19. 2 9 39 30 224 3 3 * 8 3 * 524 O's 1 st E. 32 38I 3 33 28s 34 84 34 5 if O's 2d L. 21 5*4 22 334 5 24 14 24 44 - Syrius. 7 *5 304 Procyon. 25 *6 8 26 28 27 394 ae ? Navis. 8 58 382 p ) 3 424 9 4 254 5 74 " Hydrae. 9 44 134 Regulus. 21 174 io 22 514 24 24 0 Navis. 23 53 4 24 354 11 25 194 26 464 (3 Leonis. : <3 1 24 Spica Virginis. 1 5 364 13 16 55 18 16 * Eridani. * Mr. Bayley remarks that the Clock appears to have lost 12 " more than its usual rate between, the transits of Regulus and 8 Navis, which is obvious enough ; aud it is farther manifest, on examining the Observations, that it happened between the transits of a Crateris and 8 Navis : Mr. Bayley farther remarks, that he is certain the Clock was not dil- turbed by any means whatever, as he was in the Observatory during the whole interval, and no other person but him- self all that time.
ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS 37 Observations by Mr. Bayley, at Queen Charlotte's Sound, Continued. The Error of the Transit Instrument deduced from Observations of Circum-polar Stars. l 773 ' Transit above the Pole. Transit below the Pole, Interval by the Clock between the Observations. Clock loses between the Observations. Error of Instrument where the O pasted. Phenomena Remarks H ' H " H / April 26. 25 3° 31,22 13 31 12,69 11 59 18,23 44,56 1,46 a. Eridani. 29. 6 16 57-37 18 l6 XI,81 11 59 14,44 44,64 0,46 Canopus. May 1. 33 5 34,56 21 6 16,50 11 59 18,06 44,07 1,06 |3 Navis. 3- 9 2 37 21 1 53,% 11 59 16,69 44,29 0,49 (3 Navis. - 4. 33 1 8,53 21 1 53,69 11 59 14,84 44,37 o,39 (3 Navis. --- 5. 25 l 7 ",38 13 17 55 11 59 16,38 44,83 0,60 " Eridani. 14 13 7 26 12 22 11 59 15,0 44,83 0,09 * Centauri. --- 6. 8 5 25,5 20 4 40,19 11 59 14,69 C aa .% 2 . 0,25 a I Navis. 8 58 10,79 20 57 25,38 11 59 14,59 0,30 p ) 25 15 42,38 13 16 26,06 11 59 16,32 44,82 o,57 ^ x Eridani. ■- 7. 1 15 42,38 13 H 57,o 11 59 14,62 44,81 0,29 25 14 12,94 13 14 57-0 11 59 15,94 44,81 0,38 Eridani. ■.. 8. 1 H 12,94 13 13 28,0 11 59 15,06 44,32 0,32 ) --- 9. 25 3i 14,25 13 31 58,0 11 59 16,25 44,56 0,40 as Eridani. - 12. 33 16 31,25 20 17 14,75 11 59 16,50 44,74 0,62 £ Navis. 33 37 05,88 20 37 49,44 11 59 16,44 44,74 0,59 |3 |Navis. 33 9 17,25 21 9 59,81 11 59 17,44 44,74 1,09 9 9 17,25 21 8 29,0 11 59 n,75 44,74 i,75 |3 Navis. - iZ. 33 7 46,0 2 I 8 29,0 11 59 17,0 44,55 0,78 jf | Navis. 33 38 32,75 21 39 15,50 ii 59 17,25 44,55 0,90 - 18. 1 x 7 40,97 13 16 55,56 n 59 14,59 44,90 0,26 as Eridani. The mean of all the Observations of Achernar is o",§z6, of (3 Navis 0^,587, of e Navis 0^,453 ; Canopus gave o",46, x Centauri 0^,09, J Navis o",ZZ, and u Navis o",9; and hence the angle under which the instrument cut the meridian at the zenith will be 6"f, 4'i, 7", 1", 8"f, and 8% respectively •, the mean of all which is 6 V of a degree ; and so much the Northern semicircle of the vertical, wherein the instrument moved was to the Eastward of the true meridian. Mr. Bayley remarks that the instrument was carefully kept to two marks, one about a mile and quarter off to the Northward, and the other to the Southward, at about the distance of four miles and an half, from which it seldom deviated the breadth of one of the wires.
3 8 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS Observations by Mr. Bayley, at Queen Charlotte's Sound, Continued. Meridian Zenith Distances of the Sun, Moon, and Stars, for determining the Latitude. >773- U April 29 h May i O - 2. 2 41 5 24,5 Latitude deduced. 4i 5 30,2 4i 5 45-4 41 5 41,8 4i 5 55>i 41 5 38,6 41 5 40,7 41 5 46, 41 6 8,5 4i 5 4,45 U 5 42 3 41 5 25,2 4i 5 4L" 4i 5 34,8 41 5 46,0 4i 5 49' 41 6 2,7 41 6 6,o 41 6 13,0 41 6 10,2 Phenomena. O's L. L. O's U. L. Spica Virginis. Arcturus. O's L. L. O'sU. L. j J'sL. L. 20" after I Transit. O's L. L. O '5 U. L. o 's L. L. O's U. L. O's L. L. O's U. L. 5 J'sL. L. 20 v after £ Transit. Arcturus. a. Aquilae. O's L. L. O's U. L. ,5 (3 Leonis. t Achernar below th< c I Pole. Arcturus. 5 J'sLL. 19" afte £ Transit of ist L. O's L. L. O's U. L. O's L. L. O's U. L. 9 Arcturus. " Cor. Borealis. O's L. L. O's U.L. 3 f3 Leonis. g |Crucis. , Achernar, below the t Pole. " Centauri. | D 'sL.L. 2o"before £ transit of her latter L
astronomical observations, 39 Observations by Mr. Bay ley, at Queen Charlotte's Sound, Continued. Zenith Distances. Exterior to Therm. 1 773 Interior Exterior Arch 0 D* Out. Arch. Arch. reduced. 3 H 3 O G 8 V Q / v May 58 58 59 27 IO z 3 12 62 I J 3- 12 58 27 4f ' 29,81 70 58s _ 24 18 16 25 3 22- 5 24 2lf 29,90 48 48s $ * ■ ' 11. 58 43 5 63 62 0 2 24- 17 11 0 59 14 58 43 7 6 30,10 48 54 s 12. 26 59 58 18 29 57 54 33 41 28 0 9 0 26 18 57 30,30 45 44 62 3 18-f- 10 58 57 46 ■ zo,zo 56 53 29 9 *3 3i 0 13- 10 29 9 18 30,10 45 i 45 % 13- 59 59 44 12 32 18 62 0 20- 10 59 12 22f ; 30,18 62 54 r 14- 59 59 59 27 *4 28 63 63 3 1 30 22 - 0 8 59 58 59 27 7 21 ! 30,29 64 541 l 7 20 36 18 2 O 0 17 20 37f 30,30 49 f 49 11 12 18 11 3 26 c 11 12 22 30,30 491 49 80 24 45 85 3 3 0 80 24 45i 30,30 491 49 18 9 46 19 t 16 0 18 9 50s 30,30 49 i 49 h "5- 60 59 *3 4i 36 24 64 63 0 2 31 22 0 0 60 59 *3 4i 371 32 i - 30,20 64 58 F 2 7- 48 4 10 5i 1 4- 18 48 4 ,6 | 29,48 42f 43 Latitude deduced. 4i 5 53,4 4* 5 49-6 4* 5 40,3 41 5 3 2 >° 6 11 5 50 6 9 6 o 5 44 Phenomena. O s L" L. O '8 U. L. £ D 'sL.L.2^before ^transitofherlatterL O's L. L. O's U. L. t "'sL.L.2 2"before (_ transitof herlatterL. o's L. L. o'slJ.L. £ v 'sL L.24"before t transit of her latterL O's L. L. O *s U. L. O's L. L. O's U.L. 3 Crucis. Centauri. 5 Achernar, below I the Pole. (3 Centauri. O's L. L" o's U. L. S D 'sL.L.23"before ^transit of her latterL The mean of all these Latitudes, Mr. Bayley makes 41? 5' 474" South. If a mean of the 24 Observations of the Sun and Stars, to the Northward of the zenith, be taken, and also of the nine Observations of Stars to the South of the zenith, and then a mean of these two means be taken for the Latitude, it will be found 41° 5' 53"f South. M
4° ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS Observations by Mr. Bayley, at Queen Charlotte's Sound, Continued. Lunar Observations for the Longitude of the Place. -773- Time by the Clock. Distance of the o's and v 's Limbs. Zenith Distance O's U.L. Altit. of r's U. L. H ' " " ' " 0 / // Q ' if: April 29. 5 32 20 79 52 3° 70 16 50 23 34 ] 35 46 52 50 70 46 50 23 45 > 3 8 35 53 40 71 11 12 24 15 j - 4 30 + 3* k H May 1. 6 37 22 104 35 30 79 59 40 23 28 9 41 24 104 36 Z4 80 37 35 24 3 44 54 104 37 20 8i 12 30 24 32 3upplemen- Zenith Alt. of tal Distance Distance the o's O and D 'sL. J's U. L. L. L. h - 8. 22 58 26,8 30 37 0 75 42 49 7 56 23 11 3 of 30 42 53 77 57 14 9 587 23 22 18 30 49 3i 79 49 47 11 3 6t - 5 8 4- 2f I 0 9- 23 30 7, 8 44 32 44 7° 2 49 12 i3r 23 44 22,8 44 39 34 72 35 46 r 4 1 8-f 23 55 3 °t 44 45 46 74 36 28 15 52 0 4 50 44 5° 29 76 14 57 17 9 0 13 45 t 44 56 17s 78 7 0 18 30s - 1 00 + 2| I D -- IO. 0 35 A0,8 58 18 27 72 40 4 20 44T 0 47 12 58 24 3 1 73 47 -2 22 of 0 56 394 5 s 3 ° 1 1 75 24 2 23 3i 1 4 48 58 34 36 76 Ai 32 23 54f - -3 39 S 8 39 16 78 2 A 44 24 5° - 10 -h 2f E Dist. G and Zenith Altit. S's nearest Distance O's Limbs. D 'sU.L. L. L. F -- II. 23 35 9 109 30 45 5- 35 56 11 58 -) 37 3 8 29 42 52 2 41 12 18 39 46 29 0 52 2A 7 -2 37 v 42 XI 28 30 A 2 Al Ib i2 57 f 44 17 2722 53 -3 43 '3 15 4 6 3 26 37 53 32 3 b •3 3 - J - 4 19s + 2 50 w -1 O 3 Therm. >Z0,l4 53 Out. 5o Longitude East. 174 14 o Errors of the Quadrants ■30,32 52 541 Errors as above. l 73 50 371 30,01 30,01 30,01 56 56 52! §2i 56 52i Errors of the Quadrants. ' '57f 57* 57 k 6iz 29,95 57 6C rrors of the Quadrants. 29,95 29,95 29,95 29,45 61 61 6, 57 29,82 29,82 29,82 29,82 29,82 64 64 64 64 56 56 56 56 64 56 rrors of the Quadrants. 54 47 173 5 8 Remarks. Hazy. Clear, and the Objects distinct. Mean ofgObf. Mean of 4. Mean of 4. MeanofZ Obf. Ditto of 5. Ditto of 4. Ditto of 4. Ditto of 4. Mean ofzObf. Ditto of 4. Ditto "of 4. Ditto^of 4. Ditto of 4. Very clear.
ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS 4 * Observations by Mr. Bayley, at Queen Charlotte's Sound, Continued. Lunar Observations for the Longitude of the Place. 1 773 - F May 11. 12 14. Distance of Zenith Altit. 03 Therm 1 lme oy the Clock. the v's O and Limbs. Distance S 'sU.L of o's L. L. sa O 3 S Out. Longitude East. H 0 u '' 0 2 3 48 02 109 25 54 53 54 28 >3 491 5 ° l 7 25 3 ° 54 18 53 14 7 52 55 43 20 23 22 58 56 54 55 45 13 IC 24 14 14 28 50 '30,07 54 47 174 2 46 s 57 34 22 i 5 55 37 26 15 9 0 0 11 20 25 56 5 27 15 3 i J 0 2 49 109 20 0 56 34 19 15 521 ' 5 6 18 58 5 6 59 40 16 12 7 10 30 7 18 16 xo 42 57 57 25 54 3 ° 21 16 16 32 5 i ►30,07 54 47 173 53 33 12 13 14 5 ° 58 16 42 17 10 14 3 ° 14 0 58 4 i 33 17 2 8 d 0 '7 10 109 13 6 59 10 47 17 48. '9 49 12 22 59 40 0 18 8 22 24 10 24 IO 9 50 52 60 00 5 30 58 20 18 18 27 46 ►30,07 54 47 173 3 8 36 26 55 8 20 60 57 42 '9 5 29 20 7 25 61 24 20 19 23d - 4 19s + 2' 50" Errors of the Quads. 23 32 42 97 8 25 44 7 22 10 58 35 21 7 18 32 38 11 21 37 57 5 54 57 26 11 43 >30,25 54 54 i '74 19 10 40 45 4 52 45 25 56 12 6 43 2 4 0 48 3 ° 12 28 Errors as above. 2 28 21 72 50 40 52 21 3 2 24 22 33 2? 49 10 53 9 20 24 5 ° 37 8 48 40 53 44 36 25 8 >30,31 47 48 174 11 30 40 0 47 26 54 9 56 25 24 42 26 45 36 54 34 28 25 37 2 44 55 72 44 50 54 58 30 25 48 J 5 ° 54 49 2 42 41 40 34 55 56 57 30 0 35 26 26 18 32 l30,3' 47 48 173 5 i 5 l 59 2b 40 0 57 25 24 26 55 \ Remarks. During all these Observations, > the air was clear, and the objects very distinct. * * * before, The height of the eye, above the sea, was, at a medium, 85 seek
42 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS. Observations by Mr. Bayley, at Queen Charlotte's Sound, Continued. Observations of different Sorts for the Longitude of the Place. it May 6. Jupiter's 2d satellite immerged at 19 h. 52' 57" by the Clock, or at 17 h. 10' 23 "6 apparent time. At the time of this Observation, the air was very clear, and the limbs of the planet, as well as its belts, exceedingly distinct and well defined; the magnifying power used was 150 times. --- 12. v Aquarii immerged behind the Moon's bright limb at 19 h. 11' i6"f, or at i$h. 54' 45" apparent time: the magnifying power used was 90 times. Emersion from the dark limb at 20 h. 33' 58"!, or 17 h. 16' 58''-^ apparent time. These Observations also are very good, the air being very clear, and the objects distinct and well defined : the same magnifying power was used as at the imer- sion. Observations for the Dip of the Magnetic Needle. *773* Face of the Instru- ment. East. West. Q * Q ' b4 35 64 30 65 0 64 45 64 49 64 46 64 52 64 25 64 54 64 35 64 37 65 i 65 3 65 0 64 45 65 0 64 45 64 43 64 30 64 35 64 25 64 z6 64 50 64 32 64 53 64 54 64 35 64 37 65 0 65 0 64 47 64 43 After changing the Poles of the Needle. Face of the Instru- ment. East. West. 0 / 0 ' 64 21 64 36 6 4 37 64 15 64 32 64 20 64 20 64 27 64 29 64 39 64 50 64 26 64 54 64 49 64 45 64 52 64 19 64 50 64 22 64 28 64 40 64 41 64 47 64 40 Mr. Bayley had here the same troublesome business with his dipping needle that we had at the Cape of Good Hope: for he remarks, that after labouring a whole day to balance it, he found himself just where he began, and that he balanced it, after all, by discharging the magnetism, and adjusting the needle to an equilibrium, first, in an horizontal position, by means of the balls which are on the wires, that have the fame direction with the needle, and then in a vertical position, by means of those which are on the wires at right angles to it. The mean of all the dips, before the poles were changed, is 64° 53^8; the mean of all afterwards 64° 35': the mean of both is 64° 444.
ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS. 43 Observations by Mr. Bay ley, at Queen Charlotte's Sound, Continued. Observations for the Variation of the Compass. O May 2. it 8 . 19 20 . Zenith Distance ©'s U. L. Azimuth of the o's center. Variation East. 80 79 79 79 78 78 78 80 79 79 79 78 78 78 76 75 75 75 76 76 76 77 77 77 77 78 78 78 79 79 80 30 32 55 4 31 52 14 3 58 37 40 31 22 5 6 36 37 36 18 24 3 35 42 48 20 10 7 o o o 40 38 27 15 47 38 6 40 3.7 'o 5 1 50 10 15 29 20 43 o 59 40 24 18 35 20 56 20 15 2 5 37 15 o o N. 46 46 45 45 45 44 44 N. 43 43 43 42 42 42 4i N..34 34 33 N. 61 61 61 61 61 63 63 . 63 64 ■ 64 65 65 65 65 30 E. 18 25 8 2 57 5 l 40 E. 25 15 50 35 o 55 15 E. o 40 15W.I 20 26 47 54 o 25 36 06 i5 o 20 40 45 >13 244 M3 °8i j i 13 16 >iZ 40| The following Variations Were obtained by placing the Compass in the meridian, and turning its index to the Northern and Southern meridian marks alternately. Varia- Varia- Varia- Varia- tion tion tion tion East. East. Fast. East. O ' 0 * O * Q ' 13 3° 13 45 13 40 13 50 >3 35 13 46 13 35 '3 53 14 0 13 25 tz 40 13 47 13 44 13 20 13 17 iZ 44 13 40 13 42 13 '9 tz 40 1 3 30 13 50 13 42 13 20 13 35 13 45 13 27 13 27 13 37 13 3° 13 29 13 42 13 47 13 29 13 36 13 29 13 50 13 4i 14 08 13 19 13 27 13 37 13 46 13 48 13 19 13 35 13 40 13 50 13 1 5 1 3 38 13 35 13 4i of all these gives the variation i3 " Z 8 M E. By Observations of Amplitudes. 1773 - Amplitude of the o's center. Variation East. O ' <i ' ¥ May 7 . N. 54 3 E. 13 25 s - 12 . 52 20 13 18 n 13 52 0 13 18 ¥ - J 4. 51 44 13 39 <? - 18 . 50 15 13 25 ^ L - 19 . 50 05 13 17 V - 20 . 49 55 iz 09 The mean is 13 21 ^ -3 And the mean of -all gives the variation of the Compass 13° 31' 16" East. N
44 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS Observations by Mr. Bayley, at Queen Charlotte's Sound, Continued. Observations on the Tides. , * 773 - Time by the Clock H ' Apparent Time. Height of the Water. Remarks. 1 773 * Time by the Clock TT~ Apparent Time. Height of the W ater. Remarks. H ' F. I. H ' F. 1. D May 3 - 2 I !5 3 6 : L May 5. 0 0 4 4 21 20 3 64 0 IO 4 3 2 I 3 ° 3 7 i 0 20 4 2 21 35 3 7-7 Wind still, 0 30 4 1 v 2 1 40 3 7-8 and water 0 40 3 11 21 45 3 7-8 smooth. % - 6. 0 0 d Low Water. 21 5 ° 3 7-8 10 50 4 I T 21 55 3 7-8 11 0 4 2 22 0 3 7 £ 11 10 4 2 I 22 IO 3 7 11 20 4 3 Calm, and 22 20 3 6 t II 30 4 3 the Water $ -- 7 - 9 3 ° 3 9 n 35 4 3-2 smooth. 9 35 3 IO 11 40 4 3 9 55 3 10,5 11 50 4 2 1 IO 0 3 IO 4 Weather as 12 0 4 1 1 IO IO 3 11 above. Low Water. O 1 Below 0. lo 20 3 II 1 23 30 4 2 1 IO 3 ° 3 II S 40 4 3 IO 40 3 11 ' 50 4 4 Calm, and IO 45 3 IO 0 0 4 4 the W ater IO 55 3 9 10 4 4 smooth. 21 5 ° 4 2 20 4 4 22 0 4 3 30 4 3 § 22 7 4 3,7 40 4 2 z 22 15 4 4-1 ¥ -- 7. Low Water. 0 2 -r Below 0. 22 20 4 4-5 Blowing " 35 4 5 i 22 25 4 4,5 strong, with 11 45 4 6 1 22 35 4 4,5 some swell. 11 50 4 7 22 45 4 4,5 12 0 4 7 t Fine weather, 2 2 5° 4 4,0 12 10 4 7 i and the wa- 22 55 4 3-7 12 25 4 7 1 ter still. 23 5 4 3,0 12 30 4 7 1 23 15 4 2,0 12 40 4 7 1 a --. 5 - 22 3 C 3 11 4 i2 45 4 7 22 45 4 0 z 12 50 4 6 t 22 5 C 4 1 13 0 4 5 1 23 10 4 t 4 Low Water. 0 3 Below 0. 2 3 15 4 2 4 Strong wind, 0 5 4 7 t 23 25 4 3 i and much 0 20 4 8 1 23 3° 4 4 swell. 0 25 4 9 2 3 40 4 4 0 30 4 9 t Weather,&c. -3 5 C 4 4 ' 0 40 4 9 t as above. £>& * 2 ^ 44 * ^. 9 * ^ 4 *
ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS. Observations by Mr. Bayley, at Queen Charlotte's Sound, Continued. Observations on the Tides. 1773 - Time by the Clock Apparent Time. Height of the Water. Remarks. t 1773 - Time by the Clock Apparent Time. \ Height of the Water. Remarks. H ' H ' F. I. H " H ' F. I. ? May 7. 0 5 o 4 94 O May 9. 2 40 4 74 1 0 4 9 2 50 4 74 1 10 4 8 4 3 0 4 64 1 20 4 ? T 3 5 4 54 h - 8. Low Water. 0 4 4 Below 0. r - 10. Low Water. 0 oi Below 0. 12 30 4 9 Strong wind all night, and so high 12 40 4 10,4 a sea that I could not come near 12 50 4 11,2 the 'nstrument. 13 IO 5 1 Weather, F - 11. 2 30 3 9 13 1 5 5 i-r &c. as above. 2 40 3 10 Strong wind, >3 2 5 5 1 3 10 3 n 4 and the water 13 35 4 n,2 3 20 4 0 very rough. •3 40 4 io ,4 3 3 ° 4 0 '3 55 4 9 3 40 3 n 4 Low Water. 0 5 4 Below 0. 3 5 ° 3 10 1 0 4 4 4 4 0 3 9 1 10 4 6 Weather too bad to observe all 1 20 4 7 Before these night, and every day afterwards 1 30 4 7 4 the Clock unti the 1 5th. 1 40 4 74 had been put h -15. 5 40 2 10 1 50 4 4 io forward. 5 55 2 104 2 0 4 S 4 6 10 2 104 2 10 4 5 6 20 2 11 Weather O-9 Low Water. 0 3,4 Below 0. 6 40 2 114 fine and l 3 30 4 8 4 7 0 2 114 wind still. 13 40 4 9 4 7 20 2 n 4 13 So 4 ii 7 30 2 11 14 0 4 il 4 7 40 ' 2 10 *4 5 4 H 4 v -- 17. 7 0 3 2 14 15 4 H 4 7 IC 3 4 Weather 14 25 4"4 7 30 3 54 serene and 14 30 4 H 4 7 40 3 54 quiet. '4 35 4 104 7 50 3 54 14 40 4 94 8 0 3 5 t 14 50 4 9 8 30 3 4 Low Water. 0 24 Below 0. 8 co 3 2 1 5 o 4 6 Low Water. 0 04 2 0 4 64 2 1 30 3 94 2 10 4 64 21 42 3 io 2 20 4 7 4 Moderate 21 50 3 ic >4 2 30 4 7 4 weather 22 0 3 11
46 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS. Observations by Mr. Bay ley, at Queen Charlotte's Sound, Continued. ■te. Observations on the Tides. 1 773' Time ay the Clock Apparent Time. Height of the Water. Remarks; 1773. Time ay the Clock Apparent Time. Height of the Water. Remarks. H ' H ' F. 1. H ' H ' F. I. D May l 7 ' 22 IO 3 11 Weather S May 19. 0 30 4 I if 22 20 3 11 calm and 0 5° 4 1 I 22 30 3 104 serene : The 1 0 4 IO 22 40 3 10 Moon above 1 10 4 9i 22 50 3 9 t the horizon. 1 20 4 8 F - iS. Low Water. 0 2t V --- 20. 11 40 4 1 if 22 20 4 I If 11 5° 5 if 22 30 5 Of 12 0 5 if 22 50 5 2f Weather 12 10 5 if Weather 23 O 5 3 good: Moon 12 20 5 if calm, and 23 10 5 3 f above the 12 30 5 if water undif- 23 20 5 3i horizon. 12 40 5 1 turbed. 2 3 3° 5 3 12 50 5 of 23 40 5 2 13 0 5 0 23 50 5 of Low Water. 0 if 0 0 4 1 if 23 50 4 10 S - - ; - X9. Low Water. t 4 f 0 0 4 11 22 40 4 8 0 10 4 us 22 50 4 9t 0 15 4 1 if Weather fine 23 0 4 10 Water still: 0 20 5 0 and water 23 20 4 n Moon above 0 3° 5 0 smooth: 23 30 4 us the horizon. 0 40 5 0 Moon above 23 50 5 of 0 45 4 1 if the horizon. 0 0 5 of 0 50 4 1 if 0 10 5 Of 1 10 4 10 0 20 5 of | 2 - 21.(Low Water. 0 us Mr. Bayley made the preceding observations, by means of a glass tube of about vf of an inch internal diameter, with an exceeding small aperture at the bottom to admit the water; by which means, the surface of the water in the tube was rendered so steady, as not to alter -,V of an inch when the swell of the sea was two feet. This tube was lashed fast to a ten-feet fir-rod, divided into feet, inches, and quarters. The rod was fastened to a strong post, fixed firm and upright in the water; and he is certain he could discern a difference of X V of an inch in the height of the water. Mr. Bayley has not deduced the apparent times from those by the clock; but it may be readily done from the preceding Observations of equal altitudes.
ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS 47 Observations by Mr. Bay ley, at Queen Charlotte's Sound, Continued. Computations of the Rates which the Clock C, and Mr. Arnold's Watch, No. I, went at. 1 773 Time by the VV atch when compared. IT -7- Time by Clock C, when compared with the Watch. Clock faster than the Watch. H ' " H 8. IO 38 2 50 53 12 53 O -- 9- 10 43 3 18 5 6 35 56 3> 10. 10 45 3 23 58s 38 58s S 11. IO 40 3 22 0 42 0 S 12. JO 39 3 23 49 44 49 u i3. IO 45 3 32 43 47 43 ¥ 14. JO 35 3 25 33f 50 33r fe .. 1 A. 10 45 3 38 *9t 5? ■9t O 16. 12 °5 5 1 20 t 20^ D -7- 11 20 4 19 13 59 13 F -. 18. 11 °3 4 5 0 17 2 O L 1 19. IO 33 3 37 39 4 39 V -- .. 20. 12 25 5 32 43 7 43 Clock gainson Watch between Comparisons. Interval between the Compa risons. Watch loses on the Clock in 24 Hours. Clock loses on Syderial Time per Day. Watch loses on Syderial Time. Watch loses on mean Time each Day. " H ' * / ✓✓ 2 50 23 25 2 54.35 I 27,0 4 21,35 24,85 2 50 24 44 2 44,92 I 29,0 13,92 17,42 2 5 °f 23 56 2 50,90 1 29,0 19,90 23,40 2 39 i 23 18 2 44,29 I 29,0 13,29 16,79 2 45 f 24 01 2 45.39 I 28,30 13,69 17,19 2 5 ° 24 4 2 49.54 I 28,66 18,20 21,70 2 5 6f 24 22 2 53.0 I 29,25 22,25 25,75 2 50 23 43 2 52.0 I 28,58 20,58 24,08 2 5 1 23 56 2 5''46 I 28,58 20,0 23,50 2 49 23 52 2 49.90 I 29,39 18,29 21,79 2 5 i 24 6 2 50.30 I 28,22 18,52 22,02 2 48 23 58 2 48,22 I 28,22 16,44 19,94 2 54 23 55 2 54 . 6 s I 28,79 22,39 25,89 2 54 ♦ 24 6 2 53.55 I 28,68 22,23 25,73 2 57 24 1 2 56,80 1 29,0 25,80 29,30 2 53 23 49 2 54,30 1 29,77 24,07 2 7,57 2 534 24 5 2 53 A 5 I 29,74 22,89 26,39 2 54 23 54 2 54,72 I 29,48 24,20 27,70 3 3 24 5 3 02,40 1 28,73 31,13 34,63 3 24 2 3 02,26 I 29,19 31,45 34,95 3 If 23 55 3 01,60 I 29,19 3 C > 79 34,29 2 49 23 59 2 49.'2 1 29,67 18,79 22,29 2 54 24 6 2 53,28 I 29,57 22,85 26,35 2 50s 2 3 50 2 5 1 ,7 1 I 29,19 20,90 24,40 2 4 54 24 JO 2 44,59 I 41,32 25,91 29,41 3 01 25 20 2 51,40 I 29,18 20,58 24,08 2 524 23 ■5 2 57,97 I 29,18 27 H 5 30,6c 2 47 23 43 2 48,97 I 29,36 i 8,33 21,83 2 39 23 3 ° 2 42,48 I 29,90 12,38 15,88 3 04 25 52 2 50,70 I 30,10 20,80 24,30 O
4 8 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS. Observations by Mr. Bayley, at Queen Charlotte's Sound, Continued. Observations made on Board the Ship, with Hadley's Quadrant. *773 Time by No. 1. Altitude of the 0's L. L. Error of the Quadrant. Baron Thermoms. Watch slow of mean Time. W atch loses on mean z I* A. * c. D. Time. ^0 H ' " 0 / ✓ -v H - ' h May 29. 6 32 24 7 *4 45 - 1 45 29-7 53 48 13 32 58,3 33-75 28,90 37 -o 12 D - L June 3 1 ' 2 6 27 22 6 31 4 ! t 6 31 15s 7 5 20I - 4 49 - 7 27 30,0 3°,2 61 62 57 52 13 34 05,8 13 35 03,6 I I 12 O - 6. 6 48 25 9 24 54 -12 22| 3°>3 60 52 13 36 54-6 12 Mr. Bayley, by including these with the preceding computations of the Watch's rate of going, concludes that its mean rate of losing, while here, was 25^4 a day on mean time. He farther computes that the Watch was 13 h. 28' 51",3 too slow for mean time on Thursday, May the 20th, at noon. He also makes his Clock to have lost at the rate of T 2 9",003 a day on fyderial time ; in which computation he rejects its loss between the 14th and 15th of May. It was set up in the same manner as at the Cape, and the bob of the pendulum was 84, 2 feet above the surface of the sea at low water. The pendulum, when first set agoing, vibrated only 1® 50' on each side of o, but increased its arcs of vibration until the 26th of April, when it swung i° 53' each way, and on May 15th it had increased to i° 54'. Length of the pendulum the same as at Greenwich. Observations at Queen Charlotte's Sound, in New Zealand. * 773 * Equal Altitudes. Time by Mr. Kendall's Watch. Lower Wire. M iddle Wire. Upper Wire. ✓ ,, H ' " ' / O May 23. 57 481 10 1 58 6 14 2 5 + 7 11 ** 3 ° M* cs 1 3,0 of 14 25 44: 35 5 3 ° 56 h -29. 8 04 10 12 374 17 IOf *3 35 f 18 9i 22 52 o -30. 22 27 14 17 48s 13 8f 27 55 1 23 26 18 53 Zen ith Distance. 169 00 Time of apparent Noon by the Watch. H ' *2 16 35,3 12 18 07,95 Phenomena and Remarks. O's U. L. o's L. L. o's U. L. \ Westerly -
ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS. 49 Observations at Queen Charlotte's Sound, in New Zealand, Continued. r 773 * 8 'June 2. U - 3. Equal Altitudes. Time by Mr. Kendall's Watch. Lower Wire. Middle Wire. Upper W ire. / // H ' " xo 524 IO 15 23I. 20 02 16 22^ 21 6 25 55 * 22 6f 2 7 37 14 14 23 06 t8 27 : Z Cn ith Distance. 20 o 20 o Time of apparent Noon by the Clock H 12 ig 20,71 Phenomena and Remarks. G's U. L. o 4 Li b. 1 | Westerly. O's L. L. 0's U. L. O * * It appears, from the above Observations, that Mr. Kendall's Watch was gaining now at the rate of 9^05 a day on mean time; and by comparing it with Mr. Arnold's, (No. 3.) the latter appears to have lost, while here, at the rate of T 34",158. Observations for the Variation Compass. of the U73- ? May 2 1. Zenith Distance of the Q's L. L. Azimuth of the ©'s center. 71 49 o yi 25 45 71 9 30 70 5 2 15 70 3 6 45 70 16 15 N. 24 45 E. 24 15 23 40 23 °5 2215 2l 35 Mean of all is Variation East. 14 14 14 o i-i -4 C5 3 f 14 08 14 29 14 28 14 14 35 Observations for the Dip of the Needle Face of the lnstru- ment. 1 773 * East. West. O * O ' ? May 2 j. 65 10 65 5 65 20 65 1 5 65 0 64 50 65 10 65 03 t Means. Changed the Poles. % June 3. 64 0 64 05 64 J 5 64 30 63 55 64 25 64 0 64 20 64 oaf 64 20 Means. So, End. 64 39 Mean of all. I made the preceding Observations on the open beach, at a place which bears S. 84° 10' W. by compass, from Mr. Bayley's Observatory: Sound passed from one place to the other exactly in to"; perhaps ^th of a second may be added, on account of the time lost in letting go the Watch. Two guns were sired at each place, and the times noted at the other, between seeing the explosion and hearing the report, none of which differed sensibly from another. These experiments were made on a very calm evening, a little after sun-fetting; the Barometer standing at 30,32, and the Thermometer at 52°. I
5 ° ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS Observations made at Point Venus, in Otaheite. 1773- n Aug. 2b. ? 27. I h -28. 29 30 31 Equal Altitudes. Times by Clock 8. Lower Wire. 20 >34 22 37 24 424 2 7 074 50 47 + 53 74 58 35t 0 554 39 >7 41 42 18 43 21 64 4 >94 13 64 15 27 11 204 >3 49 50 54 53 24 49 >44 0 22 Middle Wire. H 6 20 xoi 24 34 14 22 444 25 09-i 5 5 2 42 55 6z 14 56 39^ 58 594 6 41 15 43 392 14 - 14 19 6 - 6 6 8 | 8 Z4 15 01 17 22| 13 2 >4 *3 22 s >9 49 40 i 14 56 6 13 5 1 14 47 24 21 57 57 43 xptr ire. Zenith Distance. Time of apparent Noon 3y the Clock. if / H 6f 294 \ 6 5 I 20 0 I 1 10 2 Z 33' 2 > 484 >3 \ 65 20 0 404 of j 72 20 0 1 10 2 5 45'4- 44l 5 \ | 7 2 20 0 11 38 | 62 5 0 I lO 30 05 t 17 12: io 287 16 55 19 '64 >5 2 l | 62 50 |70 20 O J 68 } 55 20 o 20 o 49 22 45 2 5 47 464 54 11 \55 | 68 | 70 20 o 20 o 20 O Phenomena and Remarks. O'sU.L.) c n 1 O's L. L. > £asterl l'- \ IO 32 14,51 o : sU.£'J WeM ^ e^x-w.b. S£u.u] wdta * w -* W.B g : AE:lJ w ^-w.b o's U. L. ©'s L. L. O's U. L. O 8 L. Li o's U. L. O s L. Li J Easterly. O 8 Li Li O 's U. L. o's L. L. O's U. LJ 1
ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS Z- Observations on Point Venus, in Otaheite, Continued. *773- Comparisons of the two Clocks with each other. Clock B. % Aug. 2 6. S -27. O D 29. 3°* 3*- 6 11 38 10 14 28 5 58 10 43 15 2 6 15 57 6 31 10 59 14 22 6 31 10 44 114 i n 45 53t o4 27i 3 6 4- 10^ 19 2 4 t 53 v: Clock C. 6 11 14 5 10 43 15 6 37 56 10 o 28 58 1 14 10 56 6 29 io 57 14 20 6 29 10 41 o o o o 0 o o o o o o 1 5 12 Si *5 9 0 Computations of the going of the two Clocks. "4 Time of apparent Noon by Clock B. Syderial Time of apparent Noon. Clock fast or flow of Syderial Time. Clock B. loses on Syderial Time. Time by B. of comparing the Clocks. Time by C. of comparing the Clock?. Time past Noon by B. when compared. B.before C. at Noon. B, gains on C. each Day. C. loses on Syderial Time. H ' " H ' " " ' " H ' " H ' " ' > ' " ? Aug. 27. - z8. ]> - Z O. 33 32 14,51 10 L) 02,5 26 40,9 33 58,6; 37 3b,ys + 0 31,71 - 0 55.49 -3 53.32 -5 22,47 1 27,20 1 28,91 1 29,15 11 10 11,75 10 43 53.25 10 59 19,00 10 44 00,25 II IO OO IO 43 00 io 57 00 10 41 00 46 38,54 >8 7,84 29 13,67 11 45.74 0 10,38 0 52,72 2 18,13 2 59,91 0 42,34 0 42,70 0 41,78 2 9.54 2 11,61 2 10,93 Mean 1 28,42 Mean 2 10,69 The clocks were fixed up, as usual, by means of the iron block and frame; and stood both in one tent: The pendulums of the fame length as at Greenwich; that of B. vibrated over an arch of i° 37'f each way from the perpendicular for the first two or three days, and afterwards over an arch of i° 40'. C. varied its vibrations from i° 45' on each side to i° 48', and back again to i° 45'. The times of equal altitudes were always noted by B, and C compared with it in the fame manner as the watches were.
5 2 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS i u I- iji! Observations on Point Venus, in Otaheite, Continued. Computations of the going of Mr. Kendall's Watch. 1773- Time of apparent Noon by Clock B. Time by Clock of comparing the Watch. Time past Noon by the Clock. Clock's gain on the Watch. Time past Noon by the Watch. Time by the Watch when compared. Time of apparent Noon by the Watch. Mean Time of apparent Noon. Watch too slow for mean Time. Watch gains on mean Time. H ' " h ' ~ r " " si ' " H ' " H ' " H ' " H. ' " " ? Aug. 27. Tj - 28. - - Zv. $ -31. 10 23 33,21 2 S 45.4' 3° 05,33 32 14.5' 10 49 41,25 11 6 2,75 10 41 38,50 11 2 58,75 26 08,04 40 17,34 'I 33.'7 30 44,24 2.54 3,92 1,10 2.95 0 26 05,50 0 40 13,42 0 11 32,07 0 30 41,29 to 37 0 io 51 0 10 22 0 10 41 0 10 10 54,50 IO IO 46,58 10 10 27,93 IO IO 18,71 0 1 16,9 0 0 59,8 0 0 24,5 0 0 06,2 13 5O 22,40 13 50 13,22 13 49 56.57 •3 49 47.49 Mean 9,18 8.33 9,08 8,863 Computations of the going of Mr. Arnold's Watch, (No. i.) W. B. I77Z. Time of the Comparison byWatch. Time of the Comparison by Clock. Clock before the Watch. Clock gains on the Watch between Comparison. Interval between theCom- parisons. Watch loses on the Clock each Day. Clock loses on Syde- rial Time. Watch loses on Syderial Time. H ' " H ' " H ' " H ' r Au g . 27. T? -28. O- 29. D -30. F - zi. 7 5 1 a 7 23 0 9 57 0 7 26 0 9 46 0 n 2 6| 10 37 23 13 14 56 10 46 49 ^ 13 10 J 7* 3 i> 6j 3 >4 23 3 17 56 3 20 49'- 3 24 >7'" 3 *6| 3 33 2 53s 3 28 23 32 26 34 21 29 26 20 3 20,7 3 12,1 3 13.6 3 9'4 1 27,20 1 28,91 1 28,91 1 29,15 4 47.9V 4 4i.oi 4 42.5 1 4 38,55 Watch loses on mean Time. o 51,40 o 44,51 o 46,01 o 42,05 I o 45*993 Observed Zenith Distances of the Sun and Stars for finding the Latitude. 1773 Zenith Distances. Interior Arch. ) Exterior Arch. Barometer. Thermometers. In Tent.) Out. t Phenomena and Remarks. 0 " G. 8. V. +" 1 0 Aug. 29. 26 36 22 28 I 17 8 3©,20 82^ 90 G's U. L. on the meridian. i 3°- 56 2 46 59 3 5 22 30.15 71 70 a Lyrae I on the men- 39 56 25 42 2 14 12 3°.'5 70; 69 et Pavonis H dian. S - ZI. 26 25 42 28 0 25 IO 30,16 84! 93 0's L. L. on the meridian. 30 >3 47 32 I O 6 30,09 75 75! a Ophiuchi 1 on the meri- 56 3 40 59 3 7 10 30,08 75* 7 ii a Lyrae > dian. 39 56 22 42 2 13 L 26 30,09 Tii 7'i " Pavonis J
ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS, 53 Observations on Point Venus, in Otaheite, Continued. In order to determine the error of the line of collimation of the quadrant, I made two holes in a board at a distance from each other, exactly equal to the difference of the two heights of the telescope, when set to the 90th divilion in a proper position for observing, and when turned upside down ; and set this board up about -f- of a mile from the observatory, str that the middle vertical wire would bisect both holes at once. I then took the following zenith distances, inverting the quadrant between every three observations. Zenith Distance of the upper hole. Quadrant in a proper position for Observation. Interior Arch. Exterior Arch. 0 ' G. S. V. "+ *9 54 0 53 54 53 S 2 53 5" 53 48 53 58 53 54 95 3 17 Q 53 48 *7 4 53 56 >7 O 53 54 16 zo 53 5 ° -7 5 - 53 54 -7 O 89 53 53 > 8 95 3 17 0,4 Zenith Distance, lower hole. Quadrant inverted. Interior Arch. 90 5 3 7 10 10 7 5 7 9 ° 89 7 53 6 f 53.8 00 00,6 00 00 30,3 Exterior Arch. G. S. V. 96 18 18 18 96 o 18 9 ? 3 -7 3 00 o 10 o 3 T 0,4 3.7 15. 1 Mean of the lower hole. Ditto of the upper hole. Excess above 18o°. Errors of the line of coll!- mation to be subtracted. Computations of the Latitude of Point Venus. >773- Eatitudes by Interior 1 Exterior Arch. j Arch. Declination. By Observations of the Sun. 9 ' " O ' " 0 - " 0 Aug. 29. 17 28 13 17 28 19! 9 2 3 59 s N - 2 - - 3 '- >7 28 46 17 29 o| 8 40 38 17 28 294 17 28 40 Means. By Observations of a Lyrae. D - - 30. 17 28 12 17 28 44! 1 2 - 3 -- 17 29 4 1 7 2Q 23I 3 8 35 27 N. 17 28 38 17 29 04 1 Means. By an Observation ot a Ophiuchi. 2 - - Z-- 17 29 0 | 17 29 11 p2 44 48 N. [ Latitude by Interior I Exterior Arch. 1 Arch. Declination. By Observations of a Pavonis. O ' " O ' " 0 ' " 17 29 44 -7 -9 47 { 17 29 4; | 17 28 42 i 17 29 22 -7 29 34 i Means, Mean of the three northern stars , Mean of both. rth. 17 29 28^ >7 28 38-' 17 29 14 | 17 29 13^ 17 29 13,7 Latitude So - 773 - L Aug. 30,
54 astronomical observations. Observations on Point Venus, in Otaheite, Continued. Observations for the Longitude of the Place. Time by Altitude Zenith Distance Distance of the Clock of the 0 *s the 0 and 1 773- B. L. L. of the D's U. L. D's Limbs. H ' " O / 9 * ¥ Aug. 27. 14 41 14 20 33 47 52 116 12 0^ 14 43 21 20 4 47 23 12 0 14 45 45 14 47 6 l 9 3i 19 14 46 48 s 46 Zlf 12 45 13 0 ►Longitude 210° 45'j- East. 14 48 12 18 59 46 19 13 0 14 49 iZ Errors of 18 45 : + 1! 46 04s ' 13 °J + 1 0 the Quad. -of 14 54 04 17 36 44 55? 116 20 30! 14 56 04 17 11 44 287 21 10 i4 57 °9 14 58 38 "6 57 16 38 44 *3? 43 53 21 30 22 5 > Longitude 210° 3/ East. W. B. 14 59 54 16 18 43 35* 22 20 15 01 03 Errors of 16 04 ■ + 43 20 -of 22 45- I the Quad.; -3 42 I *** The Moon's zenith distance was observed with the Astronomical Quadrant; the Sun's altitude with anHadley's Sextant: Height of the eye above the sea, 13 or 14 feet. _ 1773 - O Aug. 29. At 18 h. 4.1 05" by the Clock, or 8 h. 16' 46", 1 apparent time, the small star which precedes (2 Capricorni disappeared ; the brightness of the Moon rendered the Star so faint that 1 was not absolutely certain it then iramerged behind the Moon's Limb. At 18 h. 50' 50", or 8 h. 26' zo"z apparent time, (3 Capricorn! immerged behind the Moon's dark Limb; an exceeding good Observation. At 20h. 25 32", or 10h. i apparent time, (2 Capricorn! emerged: very good also. W. B.
ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS 55 Observations on Point Venus, in Otaheite, Continued. Observations for the Variation of the Compass. - 773 - h Aug. 28. 29 30, 3 l Zenith Azimuth of Varia- Distance the o's tion O's U.JL. center. .... East. O ' O ' ° ' 78 434 N. 71 0 E. 78 224 70 50 77 5 ° 7 ° 35 [5 284 77 324 70 IO 77 " 5 * 70 05 71 41 N. 67 40 E. -) 71 0 67 25 | 70 12 69 33 i 66 35 68 0 j >6 094 69 oi| 66 15 j 68 28| 66 20 J 74 13 L.L. N, 69 55 E. 73 45 t 69 35 • 73 * 7 * 69 OZ '5 42 t 72 47 68 50 72 27 t A ltitude 0 '5 69 0 L. L. 4 57 N. 84 30 W. 4 43 84 10 4 21 84 50 5 4tV 3 53 84 47 3 23 Zenith Dis- 85 0 . - tance o's L. L. | 78 58s N. 71 50 E. ] 78 27^ 7 1 25 '5 4444 78 o| 71 40 J 77 33 * N. 71 25 E. 1 17 7 i 5 *5 484 76 5 °i 7 ° 50 J The mean is 5 394 Observations for the Dip of the Needle, made by Mr. Bayley. Face of the In- - 773 - strument. East. West. V p " * Aug. 31, 28 30 29 15 : 28 27 28 45 ; 28 14 28 47 1 28 20 29 0 28 37 28 50 28 15 28 37 ; 28 35 29 0 29 05 29 35 29 '02 28 52 28 45 29 0 ' 28 50 29 0 29 O 29 27 28 38I 29 €>4 Changed the Poles.: 3 ° 29 50 30 21 30 21 30 02 30 48 31 0 30 29 30 56 30 56 30 50 31 0 31 O 31 10 N 30 50 30 56 30 0 30 30 31 O 30 -5 30 *5 30 25 31 0 30 30 * 30 37 -A 30 354 28 3 8| 29 04 29 38" 29 484! 29 43s Dip of tl Means. Vleans. C Means bef. chang- £ ing the poles.
56 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS /" ■i- Times by Clock B. Apparent Time, Height of the Water. H H ' " F 1. 5 5 6 48 0 4 9i 7 i7 0 4 8 7 56 0 4 6 9 0 48 I 4 44 10 2 30 4 6 10 57 10 4 8 11 34 6 4 9 \ 5 74 5 6 A 6 51 3o 4 u4 7 30 50 4 9 8 11 0 4 64 10 21 49 4 2! 12 21 0 4 64 *3 JO 48 4 9 14 7 45 4 114 5 5 A L.W. mean of 7. Mean of 7 Obs. Ditto of 5 ditto. Ditto of 5 ditto. H.W. mean of 8. Mean of 4 Obs. Ditto of 6 ditto. Ditto of 10 ditto. L.W. mean of 8. Ditto, ditto of 5. Mean of 6 Obs. 1 Ditto of 6 ditto. , Ditto of 6 ditto. H.W. mean of 6, Mean of 6 Obs. Ditto of 15 ditto. Ditto of 8 ditto. L.W. mean of 8. The above Observations of Mr. Bayley't, were made in the fame manner, and by the fame means, as thole at Queen Charlotte's Sound; and those which I took, were made in the same manner as those at Dusky Bay, in New Zealand; I should have continued these Observations longer, if the Natives had not taken away my tube. Number of Observa lions, with Remarks. i. rii " 4. /* *1 X
ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS, 57 Observations at Queen Charlotte's Sound, in New Zealand. 1 773* s Nov. 5 h -- 6 . L 8 . it 10 . i x, 12 , 14. Equal Altitudes. Times by Clock B. Lower Wire. Middle Wire. Upper Wire. H / " " 24 39 10 27 01s 29 21 f 27 3 6 4 29 56 s 32 * 5 t 2 i 6 i 18 59 564 57 36 s l 9 2 52 0 33 s 55 294 9 57 47 i 0 o8± 58 05 10 0 45 3 044 55 56 10 58 164 0 37 58 5is 11 1 I2i 3 34 52 5 "z 18 50 37 f 48 184 55 56 : 53 344 51 i 4 s 53 30: l 9 5 i 10i 48 52 5 6 26 54 6 5 1 47i b 9 12 8 39 s 9 16 : 11 45 14 12 49 55 : '7 47 26 45 01 53 04 s 50 34 14 3>4 10 16 52s '9 12 l 7 374 *9 48 22 64 9 394 11 -4 21 12 36: i 1 14 56 | >7 17 1 3 °s 18 56 49 4 28 l 9 2 7 59 47 56 401 l 9 54 21 52 02 59 37 -9 57 -9 54 58 12 7 JO 14 26 16 44 s 15 i 17 21 l 9 39 56 29 10 58 48I 1 7 59 2 3 s 11 1 42 i 4 3 22 I2| *9 2 5 5 '9 22 45 20 z / 1 b 39 20 4 *9 2 I 9 35 7 ! 3 l 4 55 s 22 24 10 24 234 24 5"4 27 18s 29 37 39 49 \ 10 42 9 44 28 42 45 45 5 47 24 Zenith Distance. 160 o ^ 60 o o j 67 00 } 55 40 o \55 40 o 167 00 }43 20 0 43 20 o 165 o o |54 40 o |54 40 o ^65 00 j 66 o o }57 40 o |57 40 o 1.66 o c |64 40 o |6i 20 0 1 Time of apparent Noon by the Clock. H 14 44 46,06 H 55 46i 14 59 28,63 15 6 54,51 15 10 38,71 *5 H 22,33 Phenomena and Remarks. o's U. I. O's L. L ' | Easterly. o's L. L. © O's U. L.^ o's L. l .r o'sU.L. r ' o's L. L.- O s L, L" % l : sL±f Welto| y- O's U. L. J ©'s L." l! f Masterly. O's U. L. ! Westerly. O's U. L. 1 o'sL. L.|j o ' S u. l. i Easterl y- O's L. L. O *s L. L.) O 's U. L. ( n , O'sL. L. (Westerly, O 'S u. L. J O *s U. L. O *s L. L. o's U. L. O *s L. L. Easterly. o's L. L..-* O's U. L. / n. . 0 'sL.L.f^^rIy. O's U. L. J O's U. L.J © S L, L. / I? n 1 O'sU. L.f t afteiI y- O's L. L.J J;
ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS Observations at Queen Charlotte's Sound, in New Zealand, Continued Equal Altitudes. Times by Clock B. Time of apparent Noon by the Clock. Zenith Distance. Phenomena and Remarks, Lower Wire. Middle Wire. Upper Wire. Westerly, Easterly, Westerly. " | Westerly. " £ E a sterly. ' ^ Westerly, "* | Easterly. 20 O
ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS 59 Observations at Queen Charlotte's Sound, in New Zealand, Continued. Observed Zenith Distances of the Sun and fixed Stars. 1773* Zenitl Interior Arch. Distances. Exterior Arch. Barom. Ther snTent. morn. Out. Q ✓ // G " + " $ Nov. 9. 10 16 50 10 3 27 23 j Fomalhaut on the Meridian. 55 4 25 58 3 0 7 \ 30*07 5° 47 a. Pegasi, Ditto. 0 -1 4 . 22 Z2 25 24 0 5 20 30,33 72^ 70 O's U. L. Ditto. D iZ- 22 49 32 24 1 13 3 O's L. L. Ditto. 22 16 59 23 3 3 0 [ 30,17 71 07 O's U. L. Ditto. I? 17 18 18 1 25 0 30,12 5lf 50 Achernar, Ditto. >5 - i 6. 68 53 56 73 1 3 1 *5 30,0 57 54 t a. Andromeda, Ditto. O 16 50 18 1 24 23 29,99 54-1- 55 Achernar, Ditto. 8 -17. 21 46 37 23 0 29 20 O's U. L. Ditto. 22 19 15 23 3 8 O i 29,99 7i 70 O's L. L. Ditto. n - 18. 22 5 7 23 2 8 0 29,70 7*t 73^ o'sL.L, Ditto. Cloudy. h -- 20. 68 53 55 73 1 3i 20 29,64 5°i 47 t * Andromeda, Ditto. >7 *7 33 18 1 26 -3 29,65 48s 46s Achernar, Ditto. The following Observations, for finding the Error of the Line of Collimation of the Quadrant, were made in the fame manner, and by the fame means, as those at Point Venus, in Otaheite : The position of the Quadrant was changed after every six Observations. Zenith Distanc hole : the Qu Interior Arch. e of the upper adrant direct. Exterior Arch. Zenith Distan hole : the Qu, Interior Arch. ce of the lower tdrant inverted. Exterior Arch. o / G.S.V.+ " 0 G S.V. 4- " 89 46 15 95 3 i 7 '90 14 JO 96 i 1 0 20 7 O 0 *9 22 10 O 0 20 18 7 15 l 7 20 6 15 I 9 22 13 5 I 5 89 46 27 95 3 1 20 90 1 3 55 96 I 1 0 27 20 14 0 j 0 25 '3 13 55 c 22 27 18 13 52 0 '5 21 9 1 3 52 0 20 2 r '3 14 0 0 22 Mean of the upper - 89 46 22,1 95 3 1 12 90 14 01,6 96 1 c 2 |,8 Means. Ditto of the lower - 90 14 01,6 96 1 0 24,8 Excess above 180°. 23,7 2 10,4 Error of the Line of Collimation. - 11,85 - 1 5,2 To be subtracted. k
6o ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS. Observations at Queen Charlotte's Sound, in New Zealand, Continued. Compulations of the Latitude of the Place, from the preceding Observations. *773- O Nov. 14 r -15. S - 17. V - 18. $ Nov, 16 h -20. Interior Arch. Latitud Exterior Arch. e. Declination. " ' " O ' /' By Observations of the Sun. 4 i 5 55 t 41 6/ 0 4 i 5 37 41 6 if 41 5 42 4 i 5 57 41 5 294 4 * 5 58 18 17 04sN- 18 32 33 19 2 30s 19 16 59 4 i 5 5 Zi 41 5 46s Means. By Observations of a. Andromeda. 4 i 5 3 °f 41 5 3 i 4 41 5 2 54 4 * 5 3 2 s 27 50 39 N. Hi 5 3 i 41 5 29 Means. 1 773- F Nov. 9, Interior Arch. Latitude. Exterior Arch. Declination. By an Observation of Fomalhaut. 41 5 424 > 4 l 5 27II30 48 53!N. By an Observation of * Pegasi. 41 5 48 fl 4 * 5 5 *i The preceding Stars all passed N. of the Zenith. The following of Achernar, were S. of the Zenith. v Nov. 15 . 41 6 25 41 6 3° 41 6 53 4* 6 334 41 6 9! 4i 5 5°i 41 6 29 41 6 18 Mean by Achernar. 41 5 44 41 5 M Mean of N. Stars. 4* 6 6 f 4i 5 58: Mean of both. And 4i 6 2 f is the Latitude South. Observations for the Longitude of the Place. 1 773* b Nov. 6. Time by the Clock. H Apparent Time. H 27 28 ^ 29 36 31 8 33 i3 35 5 36 33 J 42 22 43 43 45 19 47 0 48 28 50 x 6 >18 44 33>44 >18 58 32 Zenith Distance V's U.L. Distance G and D's nearest Limbs. 0 ' f58 24 99 28 - 32 28 38 2 I 444 204 53 i * 9 i J Longitude East. Remarks, &c. 'Observed with a Quadrant of Mr. Dollond's making, and T 16" must be subtracted from the distance for its error. >-74 2 51 Observed with a Quadrant J of Mr. Ramsden's making, *74 54 45 | and 2' 00' must be added *- to the distance for its error. I
ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS. 61 Observations at Queen Charlotte's Sound, in New Zealand, Continued. Observations for the Longitude of the Place. * 773 - D Nov. 8 18, 20 , Time by the Clock. H IO 12 14 1 6 *9 21 22 IO 40 42 44 45 46 47 18 43 45 47 48 49 50 53 56 58 59 o 01 20 23 25 26 28 30 55 57 58 o 2 3 Apparent Time. H J 18 19 18 18 *9 3° 1 49 23 52 13 47 59i 20 04 09 16 24 49 Z- 04 11 11 18 53 46 02 1 9 34 48 49 12 09 40 15 29 iO 5° 16 16 38 >19 22 52 19 49 14 ► 3 17 17,8 > 3 28 19 V 2 48 8,4 > 3 21 57-4 Zenith Distance J'sU.L 50 21 § 22f 23 25 26 27 ^ 53 554 I 50 5 i 58 01 04 06 f 24 15 7 54 24 23 55 5 1 49 474 4 6 4 46 45 7 X 44 44-4 44 25 44 124 43 57 * 1-3 35* 39 45 39 3°i 39 l8 4 39 °54 38 484 38 374 Distance D and D's nearest Limbs. 75 334-) 324 Longitude East. Remarks, &c. !3 Ji 4 j I 1 I *74 75 33 3 3 3°4J 27 1 264 I 26 1 254 244 - S Distance observed by Mr, Ramsden's Quadrant: Error 2' 05"; to be added. 55 37L 5 i 5 i 77 4 4t 5 54 6 64 -i 054 064 64 7 74 74 J 44 >174 41 O M 74 25 7 The distances were obscrvec with Mr. Dollond's Quadrant, and T 17'' must be -subtracted for its error. :i 77 6 64 7 74 84J *44 *5 154 16 164 I 7 i J v.174 36 12 ).i74 18 21 Distances with Dollond's Quadrant, and T 9" must . be subtracted for its error. The distance was obscrvec with Ramsden's Quadrant, and 2' 30" must be addec for its error. Distance by Dollond's Quadrant,and its error was 1 00 to be subtracted. Distance by Ramsden's Qua- > drant; and its error was .2' 14", to be added.
62 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS. Observations at Queen Charlotte's Sound, in New Zealand, Continued. Observations for the Longitude of the Place. *773- Time by the Clock. Apparent . Time. Zenith Distance D's L. L. Distance a. Arietis and 3) 's farthest L. Longitude East. Remarks, &c. H ' " H v " 0 O - 0 Nov. 20. . ' ! I 32 50 ^ 35 *8 3*8 20 40 4 41 36 43 23 45 19 ■ 4 s 45 50 25 51 57 - r>IO 4 ox V ' 63 55 64 2 2-|- 64 55i 65 15 65 3'f 65 51 66 11 66 49 67 8y 67 25 75 34 ' 33 33 31 3° 4 28 28t 28 27f 2? J ►174 42 26 - Distance with Dollond's Quadrant, and its error was 1 ' 5" to be subtracted. Nov i\. - 18. Observations of the Eclipses of Jupiter's Satellites. At 23 h. 15' 56" by the clock, or 8 h. J o 18"4 apparent time, it's ist sktel-li74 19 45 lite emerged. j At 23 h. 35'47" by the clock, or 8 h." 4' 58" apparent time, it's 2d satellite emerged. Very clear: Magnifying power ISO. A little hazy, Jupiter's belts just discernible: Magnifying power 90. Observations for the Variation of the Compass. Zenith 1773- Distance of the Azimuth of the Sun's Center. Variation East. O's U. L. O ' O t O ' 5 Nov. 8 . 74 4-H N. 85 25 E." • 74 284 85 5 . - 74 iri 73 544 85 5 85 5 >l 3 49i 73 26 85 0 73 ni 84 50 - ? - 12. 66 234 S. 72 25 W. 66 37i 7i 55 66 544 7 1 35 t'14 6 i 67 si 7i 25 67 204 7 1 05 67 00- 71 10 1773 - Zenith Distance of the O's U. L. Azimuth of the Sun's Center. Variation East. Q ' Q ' $ Nov. 12. 72 364 N. 85 10 E.~ 72 224 85 15 72 24 84 40 7 i 434 84 15 h 1 3 224 7 1 324 83 40 71 204 83 40 T? 13. 67 214 S. 70 45 W.-| 67 44 70 25 68 oif 70 20 68 194 69 45 ^14 10 68 554 69 35 6q i6| 69 40 J -I
ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS. 6 3 Observations at Queen Charlotte's Sound, in New Zealand, Continued. Observations for the Dip of the Needle. Face of the Instrument. East. West. • ' O ' 65 0 64 20 64 20 64 30 6Z 45 63 50 6z 05 64 25 63 40 64 3° 6z 58 64 19 Changed the Poles. 64 15 64 0 65 20 64 05 65 25 64 10 64 15 64 05 65 40 64 20 64 59 CO 0 64 28! 64 13 0\ O 4>1" Dip of the I * 773 * Means'; Means: Mean of the two means. Observations on the Tides. 1773 - Nov. 13 O- 14, Time by the Clock. Apparent Time. Height of the Water. Remarks. 1773- Time by the Clock. Apparent Time. Height of the Water. Remarks. H ' H ' F. I. H ' H ' F. 1. 22 14 4 2 O Nov. 14. 14 10 3 9 23 26 8 14,1 3 9t High Water 14 22 4 3 0 38 4 2 v - 15- 3 2 Low Water, 10 52 4 if 23 24 4 1 ' 1 1 4 3 10 23 59 3 8 12 0 20 46*1 3 5 i High Water. 0 29 3 4 ' 12 55 3 10 1 2 9 45,4 3 2 High Water, 13 9 4 ii 1 38 3 4 7 11 Low Water. 2 7 3 8 ; if High Water, 2 35 4 1 11 0 4 3 11 55 3 1J 11 25 3 9 12 11 3 8 > i 43 3 6 12 42 3 2 * 12 45- 21 27,4 2 10 High Water. 13 36 t 22 14,7 2 8 HighWater. 1351 3 6 j 14 33 3 2 S
64 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS. Observations at Queen Charlotte's Sound, in New Zealand, Continued. Observations on the Tides. 1 773* Time by the Clock. Apparent Time. Height of the Water. Remarks. *773- Time by the Clock. Apparent Time. Height of the Water. Remarks. H ' H ' F I. H H F. l. It Nov. *5- l 5 01 3 8 ? Nov. 19. 16 40 3 4 1 5 16 3 11 '7 2 3 7 $ -- 16. 8 6f Low Water. 17 27 3 10 12 3 ° 3 10 >7 45 4 0 12 49 3 7 - 7 Low Water. 1 S 14 3 1 7 4 Ditto. 14 "t 22 46,1 2 8 High Water. 14 26 4 3 l 5 7 3 1 14 3 1 4 2 8 -_ 17. 15 35 3 7 14 .34 4 1 15 55 3 10 h --- 20. 16 16^ 0 39> t 3 1 HighWater. 8 6 Low Water. 17 57 4 1 8 if Ditto. 18 04 4 2 . 14 02 3 0 18 08 4 3 14 2 3 29,0 2 High Water. 7 2 Low Water. n ■ - 18. l 5 55 3 0 7 2 Ditto. 8 0 Low Water. i5 35 4 4 7 IO Low Water. l 5 39 4 3 13 37 4 0 O .- 21. 15 47 4 2 I 3 59 3 10 17 1 if 1 3°>3 High Water. 14 27 3 7 18 39 4 2 14 52 3 4 18 43 4 3 ? 19. 15 43 t 0 io,3 2 6 High Water. 18 46 4 4 In these eight days, the time of high water advanced only 4 h. 44' instead of 6 40 , which I conceive it ought to have done. The observations were made by means of two posts, divided into feet and inches, from their tops downwards; and their tops were placed truly level by the astronomical quadrant.
ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS. 65 Observations at Queen Charlotte's Sound, in New Zealand, Continued. Computations of the going of the Clock. 1 773 - Time by Clock of apparent Noon. Syderial Time of apparent Noon. 14 H * h Nov. 6. 14 44 46,06 14 45 52,34 $ - 9- 14 55 46,17 14 57 54,78 L - 10. 14 59 28,63 15 01 57,49 S --- 12. 15 6 54.5 1 15 10 05,13 h -- iZ- 15 10 Z8.71 15 14 10,38 © - 14. 15 14 22,33 15 18 16,39 D - 15- i5 18 08,75 15 22 23,25 $ -- 16. 15 21 54,50 15 26 31.02 If. --- 18. 15 29 31,52 15 34 49.05 h - 20. 15 37 10,47 15 43 10.17 J) , - 22. 15 44 51,38 15 51 34,6o Clock flow of Syderial Time. [Clock gains on jSydenial Time. - - 1 2 2 3 3 A 4 4 5 5 6 06,28 08,61 28,86 10,62 54,06 14.50 36.52 17.53 59.70 43.22 20,78 20,25 20,88 21,05 22,39 20,44 22,02 20,51 21,08 21,76 Mean is 21,116 The clock was fixed up as usual, and the pendulum of the same length. Computations of the going of Mr. Kendall's Watch. 1773. Time by the the Clock of apparent Noon. Time by Clock when the Watch was compared. Time from Noon by the Clock. Clock's gain on the Watch, j Time from Noon by the Watch. lime by the Watch when compared. Time of apparent Noon by the Watch. Mean Time of apparent Noon. H ' " H ' '' ' ° H ' H ' " H ' " J? Nov, 6. 14 44 46,06 14 51 0,25 6 14,19 0,90 6 13,29 12 36 12 29 46,71 23 43 51,4c $ - 9. 14 55 46,17 14 43 21,50 12 24,67 1,7b 12 22,89 12 18 12 3O 22,89 23 44 04,2c tz - 10. 14 59 28,63 15 11 5 C 75 12 23,12 '>77 12 21,35 -2 43 12 30 38,65 23 44 10,26 ? - 12. 15 06 54,51 1 5 9 47> 2 5 2 52.74 0,42 2 52,32 12 34 12 31 7,68 23 44 24,9c h - - 3 - 15 10 38,71 15 23 15,25 12 36,54 1,80 12 34,74 iz 43 12 SI 25,26 2 3 44 33,45 0 - H- 15 14 22,33 15 22 40,50 8 18,17 1,16 8 17,01 12 40 12 3! 42,99 23 44 42,91 D - -5. 15 18 08,75 15 25 04,25 6 55,50 0,98 6 54,52 '2 39 12 32 5,48 2 Z 44 53.23 $ - 16. -5 21 54 . 5 ° 15 3 8 31.75 16 37,25 2 37 16 34,88 12 49 12 32 25,12 23 45 04,4c If-18. 15 29 31,52 15 38 20,50 8 48,98 f,2^ 8 47.73 1 2 42 12 33 12,27 23 45 29,22 T? -- 20. -5 37 >0.47 *5 43 i'.z5 6 00,78 o,86 5 59 ' 9 2 12 40 12 34 00,08 -Z 45 57.25 j -22. j*5 44 51.38 *5 44 05,25 0 46,13 0,1 1 0 46,02 12 34 12 34 46,02 -3 46 28,33 Watch too stow for mean Time. Watch gains on mean Time. H 11 14 04,69 11 13 41,31 11 13 31,61 u iz 17,21 11 13 8,1c 11 12 59.92 rr 12 47,75 11 12 39,28 11 12 16,95 11 11 57,17 11 11 42,31 7 >79 9.70 7,2 o 9 W 3 8,27 12,17 8,47 11,16 9,89 7-43 Mean is 9,091
66 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS Observations for the Dip of the Magnetic Needle, made at Tolaga Bay, in New Zealand, by Mr. Bayley. 1773- Dip of the Needle's South End. Face of the East. Instrument. West. After changi Face East. ng the Poles. Face West. O D 0 r Nov. 15, 62 0 62 rZ 62 0 62 10 62 27 62 35 62 30 62 27 The latitude of 61 55 63 0 62 55 63 0 Tolaga Bay Mr. 62 10 62 45 62 16 62 40 Bayley found to 62 35 63 20 62 10 61 55 be 3b 0 2Ex S. 6z 0 62 27 61 55 62 0 and its longitude 62 47 62 45 62 27 62 30 i 7 8°3 3 '4E. The 62 24 62 0 63 0 62 15 variation of the 61 5 ° 62 15 62 40 62 20 compass was 13 0 62 16 62 10 62 16 62 45 40' E. Means 62 20,4 62 33,2 62 24,9 62 24,2 Me an of the above four Means 62 2 Observations by Mr. Bayley, at Queen Charlotte's Sound, in New Zealand. Zenith Distance. Time of apparent Noon by the Clock. t? ' / H / " }6i 0 0 ?59 20 0 I 16 53 39-6 J 59 20 0 161 0 0 I 61 40 0 \ 54 40 '0 * (52 0 0 I 16 56 53.68 1 773 * j Dec. 6. 8 . Equal Altitudes. Times by the Clock C. Lower Wire. 9 44 18 404 28 47 t 37 4 *t 6 6 9 3 i 43 29s 57 4 i O 38 : Middle Wire. H ' " ' -Y 12 918 11 49 12 15* 12 l8 15 20 34s 21 It 21 26 I 8^ 21 29 12f 26 45 2 i 35 us 21 38 9 f 35 4 i 12 8 38 11 19 11 34 f 14 6f 12 46 of 48 29s 4 8 54 s 5 1 2Zf 13 0 us 2 4if 3 7 5 37 * Upper Wire. Phenomena and Remarks. O's U. L. O's L.L. o'sU.L. o's L. L. Easterly. o'sL. L .r Westerly. O's L. L.-, o'sU.L.1 O's U. L.J O's U. Lo ©'s L. L. I ° , S > Easterly. 0 s L# ■"-<• 1 O's U. L. o'sL. L.
ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS. 67 I Observations by Mr. Bay ley, at Queen Charlotte's Sound, in New Zealand. - 773 - T Dec. 8. n 10 . II. 12 . Equal Altitudes. Times by Clock C. Lower Wire. 53 i 6 z 56 114 lo 23 s 44 52 12 37 40 511 19 26 47 45 * 45 50 48 46 s 36 22 | 40 21 : 26 33 28 294 18 8 21 3i 20 2I| 23 18 6 371 6 48 I 50 84 53 41 52 49 - 55 464 53 4 "i 56 z 6 z 23 23 26 174 : 24 ui 27 9 Middle Wire. U F w H 7 77 7 20 50 46 I 48 53 4 2 t 51 21 4 59 2 21 7 54t 5 2 I 42 1 84 39 21 45 !7i 42 12 1 5 8 f 17 12 18 4 f 20 13 40 30 43 l 3 43 28 s 46 20 16 53 i *4 20 19 5 24 l7 21 42 !9t 39 21 45 >7t 42 12 48 204 50 12 5 1 i6f 13 39 534 42 *3 42 5 *i 45 20 24 2 21 20 26 59 * 24 21 15 37 * 2 I 18 32 s l 6 12 22 53 25 12 25 49 * 28 13 9 7 I 1 13 12 3 i 14 21 I 23 t 58 21 4 19 * 1 21 47 364 45 21 50 344 48 11 55 21 57 II 58 21 12 56 11 co 12 59 7 1 21 20 524 18 21 23 47 t 21 22 21 38 22 24 374 22 Zenith ' Distance. i7t ii4 29 s 24 5 ° 6 2v ^52 c> o } 54 40 o ^ 61 40 o Jtfi 00 ?45 o o I 145 00 J 6 i 00 ^ 55 20 o }45 40 o I 145 40 o | 55 20 o |60 40 o {52 00 o o o 37 18 - }52 160 40 J 66 \s5 o I 155 ;J95 17 6 40,90 17 09 56,71 Phenomena and Remarks. O s L" L.-] O's U. L. o : s Westerly. O's L. L. j o-'s U.L.J o'sU. D., o 's U. l! [ EasterIy * ©■*s L. L. J O S Ii" Li \ o 's U. L.j O'sU. L., 'O's L. L. It? rt ^.1 o's u. l. ? Eastctl y? 0*sL L.J © s L. L.1 o^l! fc wetely. O's U. L. i O's U. L. 1 © s L. L, I t? /x 1 o'sU. L.f Easterl D O's L. L.) O's L. L.1 ^L±[ Wester *- O's U. L. Easterly. s L. L. O's L. L o''sL.'L>^er1y. O's U. L. T
68 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS Observations by Mr. Bay ley, at Queen Charlotte's Sound, Continued. *773- O Dec. 12. rZ- f 14- l 5- Equal Altitudes. Lower Wire. Middle Wire. H 50 25s 11 52 59 53 24 11 55 59 46 5 12 48 34 49 of 12 5i 304 37 33 21 35 0 40 274 21 37 56s 33 22 3° 33 36 5f 22 33 324 43 1 12 *7 15l 17 42f 50 3 1 12 52 59 f 53 25s - 27 46s 13 30 i7 3° 43t 13 33 "3f 9 if: 21 6 29 11 54f 21 9 25 46 *7 21 46 49 134 21 43 22 4 22 -25- if 22 22 29s Upper Wire. Zenith Distance. 55 3* 5i 51 53 591 } 67 J57 o 20 O O Z2 31 55 3 1 57 20 o 32 47t 35 43s 2D O 44 13 Time of apparent Noon by the Clock. H ' 17 *3 >3.24 l 7 l 9 50,31 Phenomena and Remarks. O s U. L..-J O s L, L. ( r- n. 1 o's u. l. r Ea ^ er ^y* O's L. Lm J O:'s L. L. o's U. L. o'sU.Lo o's L. L. o's U. L. O s L. Li - o 's L. L.' O's U. L. O's L. L. o'sU. L. Computations of the Rate of going of the Clock C. 7 73* ■ Time of apparent Noon by the Clock. Syderial Time of i apparent Noon. Clock too slow for Syderial Time. H ' H " ' F Dec. > 16 53 39,b 16 5 6 07,7.0 2 28,10 tz -- 8. 16 56 53,68 17 0 30,70 3 37,02 ■4 - 9- 17 0 08,77 17 4 54,20 4 45,43 r - 10. 17 3 23,97 *■7 9 18,54 5 54,55 7j -- n. i7 6 40,90 17 13 43,20 7 02,30 0 - 12. 17 9 56,71 17 18 8,01 8 11,30 5 - *3- 17 13 13,24 17 22 33,40 9 20,16 8 - 15- i7 ®9 50,31 17 3 1 2 4-5i ii 34,20 Mean rate is Clock loses on Syderial Time. 8,92 8,41 9,12 7"75 9,00 8,86 7,02 8,47
ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS 69 Observations by Mr. Bayley, at Queen Charlotte's Sound, Continued. Computations of the Rate which Mr. Arnold's Watch (No. j.) went at. *773* Time by the Clock. Time by the Watch. Clock before the Watch. H ' " H ' '' H ' " - II. 16 50 11 7 58 0 8 52 11 O - 12. 18 8 57 9 13 0 8 55 57 r - iz. 17 11 22 8 12 0 8 59 22 <? -14. 16 33 52 7 31 0 9 2 52 L - 15. 17 26 34 8 20 0 9 6 34 Watch loses on the Clock. Time between the Comparisons. Watch loses on the Clock per Day. Watch loses on Syderial Time per Day. Watch loses on Syderial Time per Day. Watch loses on mean Time per Day. ti ' * " ' " ✓ 3 3° 23 58 3 3°' 2 9 I 8,92 4 39.21 42,71 3 32 24 08 3 30,83 I 8,41 4 39.24 42,74 3 3°* 23 48 3 32.25 I 9,12 4 4-,37 44,87 3 3°f 23 39 3 33.57 * 7.75 4 4**32 44,82 3 46 2 5 15 3 35.07 I 9,0 4 44,07 47*57 3 25 22 59 3 33.93 1 8,86 4 41.79 45,29 3 30 23 19 3 36,0 1 7,02 4 43,02 46,52 3 42 24 49 3 34.83 1 7,02 4 4**85 45,35 44,984 Mr. Bayley farther computes, that the Watch was too flow for mean Time, at Queen Charlotte's Sound, on December the 15th, at noon, by 13 h. 42' 17",46. Meridian Altitudes of the Sun and Stars for determining the Latitude. '773- Interior Arch. Zenith Distance. Exterior Arch. ExteriorArch reduced. Latitude. Phenomena. 0 G. S. V. O , " <r Dec. 7- 18 42 50 *9 3 27 0 1 8 42 48,1 41 5 58,1 O's L. L. 18 10 '5 *9 1 17 0 18 10 16,9 O'sU. L. ¥ -- 10. 18 24 40 *9 2 18 0 18 24 47,1 4i 5 43,3 O's L. L. 17 5* 18 *9 0 06 0 17 51 23,2 o's U. L. --- 11. 18 20 0 4i 5 48,2 O's L. L. *7 46 25 18 3 27 0 17 46 33,1 o's U. L. 57 05 55 60 3 20 0 57 5 58,5 4' 5 27,8 Aldebaran. 3* Z6 08 34 3 3 0 32 36 0,3 41 5 33,i Rigel. 69 26 18 74 0 9 - 10 69 26 17,3 4* 5 '7,5 (3 Tauri. 48 24 37 5' 2 18 0 48 24 47,1 41 5 08,8 x Orionis. D - ■ *3- 57 6 02 60 3 20 + 9 57 6 7,5 4* 5 35,3 Aldebaran. Latitude 41 5 34 Somh.
7 o astronomical observations. Observations by Mr. Bayley, at Queen Charlotte's Sound, Continued. Observations for the Longitude of the Place. Time by the Clock. Apparent Time. D Dec. 6. 12 40 53 33,6 34 ? ry '2 55 37 45,3 14 iZ 17 12,7 12 22 32 53-6 8 40 55 8 46 56 8 50 57 8 53 37 8 47 12 9 i 14 ri 5 47 13-7 M 5 5 ° 18-0 of the Zenith Distance j'sU.L. 0 Q ' 34 27 55 4 36 35 6 55 30 0 35 42 55 50 10 3 6 0 56 0 24 36 28 56 14 30 37 06 56 4 i 25 37 3 ° 56 55 20 37 54 57 10 12 38 10 57 21 5 43 22 60 55 36 43 52 61 18 50 44 17 61 34 50 51 39 67 29 0 52 IO 67 55 10 52 42 68 20 53 + 4 16 37 44 15 IO 17 52 6 4 18 3 6 1 18 30 30 45 20 o 31 15 33 30 31 37 41 10 32 0 48 18 32 17 54 12 32 36 46 0 ZO Altit. of Re- Zenith Distance gulus. D s L. L 56 3i 26 34 56 02 27 37 55 5 ' 28 19 55 42s 28 42 55 3 i| 29 17 55 22 29 56 + 4 Distance nearest Limbs of O and V . H tti " t o 3 Inches. IO J O o 10 i| ■ 3 °> 3 2 Therm. S rti 3 O c 94 53 35 53 0 52 10^30,32 5 i 37 5 i 94 50 49 48 47 94 37 35 55 f 3 °, 3 2 35 45 94 19 40 ] 18 15 s 30'32 17 10J - 3 30 I Errors of the Quadrants. 83 8 357 53 i 53 f 53 f 56 50 50 50 5 i Longitude East. 174 01 01| 174 25 o i 74 12 34 f 174 14 34 ! 6 17 }- 3 °, 3 ° 5 2 5 J 82 42 22~| 4i *5 4 ° 4 ° y 20,30 40 20 " " 52 56 541 55 39 55 .39 i°J Distance v 'sfar.L. from Re- gulus. 38 44 30 i 48 o 30,40 49 40 J 51 107 ' 53 15 f3°,40 54 zo > - 6 27 Errors of t 174 11 22 173 56 01 The errors of the Quadrants as above. 54 54 5 l i 52 174 16 26 173 52 3 ° ie Quadrants.
ASTRONOMICAL O B S E R VATld NS. 171 Observations by Mr. Bayley, at Queen Charlotte's Sound, Continued. Observations for the Longitude of the Place. *773- K Dec. 8. 10. 14. Time by the Clock. Apparent' Time. H H 10 59 261 u 215 4 28 *6 58 8' 46 >18 09 57 *° 43 ' 12 2 3 1 3 58 1 5 45 J I 10 c8 19 11 1 Z6 II 3 21J '>7 55 14,2 3 19 50 I io i 56,0 Altit. of the G's L. L. Zenith Distance 2) 'sU.L. O ' 0 / " 14 40 43 37 22 15 10 4Z 21 36 iA 35 43 9 0 16 0 42 56 25 16 20 42 46 36 16 39 42 36 42 16 58 42 28 41 17 16 42 2 1 O l 7 34 42 12 20 + 4 >'s L. L. 13 25 37 2i 14 0 37 54 14 20 38 12 Distance nearest Limbs of O and v. v, 3 3 I nebs?. 70 27 25 26c.IS z6 o 25 5° 25 10 >30,37 o ThermL 1 ? t H t a 64 25 o 24 20 23 40 22 30^ - 3 30 \ Errors of the Quadrants. Q C; o; 1 -4- 521 Longitude; East. ; 174 9 22; 43 49 36 49 16 48 30' .30.40 56 154 174 11 3 Errors of the Quadrants as above. It's first satellite emerged: the air very clear, and it's belts exceedingly distinct. Magnifying power 150. 174 15 3 ° Observations on the Tides. Appa- Time Height Appa- Time Height rent by the of the ... rent by the of the *77 3 * Time. Clock. Water Remarks. 1 773 ' Time. Clock. Water. H ' H ' F. I. H ' H ' F. I. i Dec. 13. 13 16 1 6 3) Dec. 13. *5 35 1 6 13 20 * 7 <J - 14. 19 0 0 84 -3 25 1 8 19 12 0 7 *3 3 ° * 9 2 18 *9 34 0 6f *3 38 1 10 *9 50 0 7 *3 42 1 io| 20 13 0 8-- 13 47 1 11 14 0 1 9 21 7 14 23 1 High Water. 14 5 1 10 *4 55 1 11 *4 15 2 of *5 * 1 IOf 14 25 2 02j 5 I 10 *4 30 2 03s 15 1 9 *4 45 2 o 4 f 23 1 8 21 5 * *5 i° 2 05I 3 ° * 7 '5 40 2 04s Remarks. Low Water. High Water. U
72 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS. Observations by Mr. Bay ley,' at Queen Charlotte's Sound, Continued. Observations on the Tides. Appa- Time Height Appa- lime Height rent by the of the rant by the ofThe 1773- Time. Clock. Water, Remarks. 1773 - Time. Clock. Water. H ' 1T ' F. I. H H ' F. I. Dec. 14. 15 47 2 31 L Dec. 15. 15 25 2 2 IS 53 2 ._2f 15 41 2 3 16 oz 2 Of j ' .> 22 39 16 I 2 4t 16 15 I IO f-. . - ! ■ . 16 25 2 3 16 22 i 9 16 35 2 2 1 9 50 0 9 16 45 2 Of 1 i 19 56 0 8 f 16 51 I I I f 3 5 20 25 0 7 Low Water. -7 5 I 10s 20 55 0 8f If. - 16. 20 40 0 8 20 5 8 0 .9 20 47 P 7 15 0 1 1 . 0 s . ) - 3 54 21 17 0 6 > 21!. 15 ' 6 1 us > 21 46 0 7 i *15 14 2 of I 21 55 0 8 Remarks, High Water. i Low Water, c In the foregoing Observations, Mr. Bayley used two posts, as I did-, but the o, or beginning of the divisions on that he found the high water by, was 4 feet and 4 of an inch higher than o on that'whereby low water was estimated; consequently, so much must be added to the'difference of the heights of the water, as put down at these two times.
ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS 73 Observations by Mr. Bayley, at the Cape of Good Hope. I 774* 5 March22, 2Z it 24- 2 5 26. 27, 28 Equal Altitudes. Times by the Clock C. Lower Wire. 21 40 24 29 33 35 8 of 4 i 7 18 04 20 50s 55 5 1 4 58 9 8 9t 45 414 8 43 '5 38 36 20 27 23 44s 34 431 37 12 40 oz4 47 4ii 5° 3 1 45 465 48 27I 27 411 3° 24s Middle Wire H * 20 24 27 20 26 5 6 s 20 34 37ir 20 37 29! 3 34 431 3 37 35t 3 45 14 3 48 4 l 9 48 7t i9 50 51-I 20 6 46 20 9 30f 20 20 29 20 23 I9i 3 52 55 + 3 55 44 4 6 43 4 9 2 9 i 4 25 x 9* 4 28 3 + 19 45 J 9i i9 48 3s 20 1 1 8 20 13 55s 4 10 23 4 L3 94 4 3 6 16 ■ 4 38 57 21 23 20 21 26 3° 21 34 18 21 37 344 2 54 53 3 3 9 6: Upper Wire. 26 34 29 24 37 35 42 45 50 53 9 11 22 25 36 38 26 05 29 14I 37 06 55 20I 3 *4 Zenith Distances. 5 t 5s 46s 37 k 294 12| 8 52f 55 44 5° 3 Q 53 18s 4 i8| 7 5t 22 58t 25 4 2 t 47 40f 62 20 o 60 20 o 60 20 o 162 20 O 170 O O ^ 66 20 o 163 40 o I 163 40 o |66 20 o ^ 70 o o }71 50 O ^ 66 45 o 66 45 o 7 1 5° 0 54 40 0 (52 48 o i }52 48 0 }54 40 o Time of apparent Noon by the Clock. H ' o 6 17,66 o 8 18,70 o 12 21,62 o 16 25,08 Phenomena and Remarks. O's U.L.i ^u.L:f Easte ^ O's L. L.J o'sL. L.j o'sU.L.j O's U. Lo O's L. L. [ oSEb®**'*- O's U. L. O s L. 1-.. - y Westerly. O's L. L.- o's U. L. o's L. L. O's U. L. o's L. L. O's U. L.. O's U. L.j 0 \V M Easterly, o s U. L. | } O's L. L.j O's L. L.j 0 ^t[ Westerly ' o's U. L.j O's U. L.9 o's'u.L.' ( >Easterly ' O's L. L. j O's L. L.j SSEfcW*® 01 * O's U. L.j Cloudy.
74 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS. Observations by Mr. Bayley, at the Cape of Good Hope, Continued. Equal Altitudes. Times by the Clock C. Zenith Time of apparent 1 Phenomena and Remarks.; 1774. Lower Wire. Middle Wire. Upper Wire. Distance. Noon by the Clock. ✓. // H ' " / " Q ' " H ' '' F March 29. 26 45 26 35 t 3° 3 1 r April had stood hitherto, the wind blew a great deal of sand and dust into the Observatory, which hurt the instruments : but in doing of this, the length of the pendulum was not altered, but the pendulum was secured as it was. The Clock stood before facing the north; it now faced the south, so that in both cafes the pendulum vibrated E. and W. or parallel to the Table Mountain nearly. 24 39 37 2lf 40 IO 47 5 ° 50 40 i 20 0 22 50 3 ° 30* 33 i 9 t 46 2 t • 56 48 59 40 7 3 8 10 29s 4 52 7 48 s 15 4 1 18 32 n 49 : 26 35 - 35 5 > - 38 38* 41 17: 53 11 : 56 7 ' 36 l 3 l 39 of 7 3° 41 12 23 l6f 20 24 16s 20 ■ 20 29 474 20 42 3.7 20 50 19 20 53 11 4 17 3 1 4 20 21§ 4 28 if 4 3° 4 1 ~ 4 46 22 20 59 17s 21 2 IO l 6 13 3f 33 2 42 19 55 26 424 29 28 42 1 45 5l 52 484 55 40 11s 21 21 4 4 4 4 5 1 l A\ 2 18 5 154 *3 9 16 3 20 26 13: 20 29 o 20 38 20: 20 41 06: 4 38 49 : 4 4i 39 ■■ 4 50 56: 4 53 424 20 38 39s 20 41 29 20 50 54 20 53 44 j Z8 3° J 69 40 166 40 >64 40 14 59* i? 53 * 25 36 28 24 41 10 43 571 1 48 4 43 12 40 1 5 36 •64 40 166 40 f 169 40 40 161 40 70 40 \yo | 68 9 56 40,12 o 35 32,56 ^61 40 5 6 3 4° x .I70 40 X ' J ^ 68 20 59 44 2 41T 10 3 7 13 Z 2 28 38: 3" 25 40 44: 43 32: 36 22^: 7 6g 39 12 f ; j 48 29I: 1 51 17: 1 41 1 74 - 43 53 224 o 20 O 37 52,57 o 40 10,64 legulus East. legulus West. ©'s U. L.~| O's L. L. O S U. L" t- n t O's L. L. > Easterl > r - G's U. L. o'sL. L.. o's L. L.n O's U. L. o^u±" , r- O's L. L. j O's U. L.J O's U. L. 1 o : sui: Eate, r- O's L. L. J o's L. L .1 O 's U. L.J O's U. L .1 O's L. L.J O's L. L.l o'" U. L." o's u. hr O 's L, L. o'sU. L. ( O's L. L. 1 ►Easterly.
ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS 75 Observations by Mr. Bayley, at the Cape of Good Hope, Continued. * 773 - O April Z, v - 4 io, Equal Altitudes. Times by the Clock C. Lower Wire. Middle Wire. H " 21 59 52 0 i8i 22 3 9 33 42i 3 30 52 3 34 8s 42 434 4 40 I 3* 4 43 5t 54 55i 4 52 29i 57 45 4 55 *71 39 5i 20 42 *5-4- 42 374 20 45 6 52 34 20 54 33 54 544 20 57 24s 8 05 2 I 10 38s 11 oif 21 >3 34 27 4"i 4 25 091 3° 35t 4 28 4 43 464 4 41 Us 46 364 4 44 71 56 34 4 53 36 58 49i 4 56 24; 43 254 20 45 5 2i 46 14 20 48 42f 1 03 21 3 3 1 ! 3 53i 21 6 25 39 3i 4 36 59f 42 234 4 39 52i 57 94 4 54 41s 59 584 4 57 3l; 45 38 20 48 5 48 254 20 50 54; 6 49 21 9 20f 9 424 21 12 *5t '7 1 °4 21 i9 44t 20 06^ 21 22 41 42 16 4 39 41; 45 *3t 4 42 39i Upper Wire. 2 43 57 02 59 54 13 Hi 25 3 1 38 46 s 4 i 3 "t 53 57; 48 2 1 6 8 57 34 28 z 37 22 ^ 55 04 50 33 f ; 53 22 I 11 52 *4 47 22 I 9 f 25 16 37 6| 40 04^ Zenith Distance. ! 3 ' 17 ! 40 36 ^ 50 02 52 51 s 44 43i 55 40 o j 55 40 o 68 o o 20 o 20 o o o o o } 7° j 70 | 68 }^5 ^65 o o 168 o o |70 20 o ^ 70 20 o 167 00 Time of apparent Noon by the Clock. H ' o 47 12,0 o 49 33 -Zo o 20 o 167 o 170 J 72 40 o |68 40 o ^66 45 o |66 45 o o 51 54.655 1 1 24,12 Phenomena and Remarks. o's U. L. o'sL. L. £ Easterly. 0*s L. L.'j o's U. L. O's L. L. O's U. L.J O's U. L.T O's L. L. O's U. L. I O s L. Lid O's L. L.') O's U. L. I O's L. L. I O's U. L.J o'sU. L.j O *s U. L. | Easterl D O's L. L.J O'sL. L .f Westerly. O s L" L.. O's U. L. I, o's u. l!j o'sU. L.^ O's L. L. o's U. L. o s L. L. o's L. L. o'sU.L * J Westerly. X
7 6 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS. Observations by Mr. Bayley, at the Cape of Good Hope, Continued. M 1 i Oo Equal Altitudes. Times by Clock C. Zenith Distance. Time of apparent Noon by the Clock. Phenomena and Remarks. Lower Wire. Middle Wire. Upper Wire. / // H ' " / // O ' " H ' " O April 10. 52 41 55 33 i i3 55l 16 44! 4 50 8! 4 53 2! 5 11 29 5 14 "7t : 47 36 50 31 9 0 11 494 68 40 0 72 40 0 q'sL.L.1 O^L.'L:} Weste ^ lo'sU. L.J *** It is manifest, at first sight, that the clock went considerably faster after it was taken down than it did before. Mr. Bayley remarks, that he is absolutely certain that no alteration happened in the length of the pendulum, but does not attempt to assign any other cause, which indeed does not seem easy to be done. When it was first set up, the pendulum vibrated i ° 44' each way from the perpendicular, or point of rest, and increased its vibrations regularly, until it was removed, when its vibrations were i° 48'each way. After it was removed, the vibrations were from i° 46' to i° 47'each way. Computations of the going of Clock C. Observations for the Variation. 1774 * Time of apparent Noon by Syderial Time of apparent Clock flow of Syderial Clock loses on Syderial > 774 - Zenith Distance 0 'sU.L. Azimuth of the D's Center. Variation West. the Clock. Noon. Time. Time. O ' O H ' H ' " If April 7. 74 0 5 S- "7 37 iM 21 59,10 21 30,00 5 March 23. H -24. Tj 26. 5 -28. 0 6 17,66 0 8 18,70 0 12 21,62 0 16 25,08 0 10 36,5 0 14 14,2 0 21 29,82 0 28 45,2 4 18,84 5 SS> 5 ° 9 08,20 12 20,12 1 36,66 1 3 6 >35 1 35 . 9 6 ? - ". 73 0 40 72 1; 32 71 46 27 71 1z 10 76 29 42 75 10 23 88 47I j S. 89 30 E. . 90 0 91 0 : S. 86 42J E. 88 12 ! | 1 36,327 ■21 27,46 Removed the Observatory, Cloc 57 0 40 10,64 0 36 00,8 0 39 38,6 0 43 16,54 O 28,24 I 46,03 3 05,90 ' 1 7.79 > 19>87 1 ' 7*97 1 17,40 1 i /,44 1 17,08 71 55 12 7 Z 43 3 i 73 13 12 ■21 25,50 V - 4 - .$ - 5. S - 6. Q - 10. 0 47 12,00 0 49 33 " 3 ° 0 51 54,66 1 1 24,12 0 54 11,8 0 57 5°>5 1 1 29,3 1 16 07,1 6 59,80 8 17,20 9 34'64 14 42,98 The mean is 21 35 a 1 17.925
ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS 77 Observations by Mr. Bayley, at the Cape of Good Hope, Continued. Computations of the going of Mr. Arnold's Watch (No. i). 1774- lime of Comparison by the Clock. Time of Comparison by Watch. ~H ~ Watch slower than the Clock. H H " 8 March23. 0 20 1 17 35 6 45 Ol n 24. 0 43 25 17 55 6 48 25 ? - 25. 0 26 44 1 7 35 6 5 i 44 h 26. 0 9 5 17 14 6 55 5 0 27. 0 3 251 17 05 6 58 25I D -- 28. 0 15 50s 17 14 7 1 50 s 17 25 7 3 i 84 1? 2. 0 26 45 16 52 7 34 45 G - 3 - 0 54 3 i 17 16 7 38 3 ' 4 - I 3 i 20 17 49 7 42 20 9 13 6 18 Exterior Arch reduced. W VL -i o 3 tr 35 34 24 £ 30,00 if? 30,15 29,97 30,01 30,01 37 8 23 56 o 21 54 42 24 3 ° 5 1 39 3 54 } 30,08 72 66 60 571 571 66 Latitude. 33 54 52 f 33 54 29 33 55 2f 33 55 55 , 33 55 57 * 33 55 14 Phenomena. G's L. L. O's U. L. G'sU.L O's L. L. Spica p | Crucis. O's U. L. G's L. L.
ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS 7 8 Observations by Mr. Bay ley, at the Cape of Good Hope, Continued. Meridian Zenith Distances of the Sun and Stars for the Latitude of the Place. 1 774* L April 4, 6 . 7* Zenith Distances. Exterior Barom H Latitude. Interior Arch. Exterior Arch. Arch reduced. sr ro -t 3 O , " G. S. V, +" o. " ,, ' 46 57 47 50 O 12 0 46 57 46 30,0a 59 33 55 n 40 22 07 39 49 3 8 39 4 i 26 41 7 0 40 34 40 42 t 3 ° 42 1 11 0 9 39 47 45 39 4 i Z2j ; 30,10 30,00 69 651 33 55 23 33 55 o6| 43 r 4 12 40 34 46 I - 30,03 Mt 72 :an 33 55 08 33 55 *4 Phenomena. Regulus. © '5 L. L. O's U. L. Procyon. O's L. L. O's U. L. South. But if the northern and southern stars be taken separately, and a mean of the two be then taken, the latitude will be 33 0 55' 30" S. W. W. Observations for the Dip of the Needle's South End. Plane of the Instru- Plane of the Instru- Plane of the Instru- ment. ment. ment. *774- East. West. East. West. East. West. O 2 / C ' Q O O 45 32 45 45 45 10 45 48 45 3° 45 55 45 0 45 0 45 29 46 0 45 54 45 45 45 15 45 28 45 27 45 57 46 0 45 57 44 56 46 0 45 42 46 04 45 45 45 49 45 15 46 05 45 ro 45 40 4 6 10 46 10 45 °5 45 27 44 5 6 45 39 45 5° 46 02 45 37 45 42 45 1 7 45 49 45 48 45 54 45 30 45 40 45 20 46 15 45 30 45 29 44 58 46 4 45 14 46 0 45 5° 45 45 45 3° 46 0 Changed the Poles. 45 26 45 55 45 35 45 54 40 0 45 45 45 54 46 0 44 47 46 0 45 34 45 45 45 37 45 50 Plane of the Instrument. East. West. O O 45 29 45 47 45 40 45 48 45 45 45 56 46 05 46 15 46 0 45 29 45 42 46 0 Before the Poles were changed. Face E. 45 16 2 5 Ditto W. 45 48 21 After changing the Poles, Face E. 45 3 1 27 Face W- 45 5 1 48 Mean Dip 45 37 0
ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS. 79 Observations by Mr. Bayley, at the Cape of Good Hope, Continued. Lunar Observations for the Longitude. 1774- I March 29. ? April 1. 2. Time by theClock. Apparent Time. H H '2 35 54 40 34 44 3 47 3* 5 l 40 54 22. >12 ii 1633 *3 o 46' 4 8 6 9 33 12 40 15 47 J 46 ZO 36 30 8 30 29 48 20 29 30 29 3 28 41 21 16 19^ 20 01 ' 22 Z3 24 5 1 T" I 27 18 | 29 55J 21 32 37 35 16 37 3 6 39 3° 41 41 44 3 lJ I 21 36 37 39 37 41 49 43 52 46 5 >20 41 18 >20 56 19 20 57 2 Zenith Distance D s L. L. 34 -6 33 3i 50 o 32 29 31 52 40 31 30 o IO 27 7 o 44 22 l'sU.L. 52 52 38 53 36 42 54 7 54 35 27 55 °4 4° 55 36 56 9 56 40 57 9 57 3i 4 50 o 42 *5 57 57 27 s 8 3 1 r8 44 42 33 45 18 20 45 44 22 46 9 46 35 47 Distance | W j from o 3 or *. 3 Therm. 0 H O 3 69 23 40 25 o 2 5 3° l 20 IC 26 42 >3 ' ° 2 7 45 29 45 J - 6 3i 45 43 *5 41 45 41 05 40 10 39 - 6 591 O 3 57 Longitude East. 18 17 30 | Errors of the Quadrant. IO ! >30,10 59? 57 18 24 25 30 | Errors of the Quadrant. 108 39 30^ v 37 40 36 47 1 108 35 3° 34 37 33 10 32 121 3° 50 3° 0 >30,02 >30,02 68 68 68 68 l8 29 IL D and Regulus. 5 andAntares, O and d . 18 33 22 95 29 30 28 10 26 47- * 4 1 o | Errors of the Quadrant. 10 o 8 10 6 30 6 o 5 o - 4 10 Errors of the Quadrant. 30,06 662 67 18 21 30 " and o. O and d . Y
8o ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS Observations by Mr. Bay ley, at the Cape of Good Hope, Continued. Lunar Observations for the Longitude. * 77 4- h April 2. Time by the Clock. H 22 22 5i 34 53 42 53 02 55 33 58 08 o 48 10. 3 5 7 9 11 20 33 55 14 16 Apparent Time. Zenith Distance D'sU.L. Distance of the 0 and >'s Limbs. H / 0 / V 47 0 37 95 4 3°i 21 06 16s 47 22 0 3 20 47 41 25 3 0 48 7 0 1 40 J - 4 10 I 27 *7 42 68 49 5 0 1 27 48 0 49 4 !>2I 7 3 °i 28 28 12 37 xo 37 47 47 30 °\ 29 3 15 46 28 . 29 28 20 45 47- 1 29 50 30 44 40-) 30 10 43 44 0 '■21 21 34 t 30 30 33 5 8 25 I? 43 42 28 20 3l 3 27 41 27 31 49 30 41 oJ w o 3 Therm. s H 3 O c Longitude East. 67 18 13 38 >Zv,o >30,0 6x 6l 66 66 r8 x8 0 18 24 xo O and 5 O and 5. O and v 1774* Observations on the Tides. Height of the Water. 1 ime by the Clock. Apparent Time. Remarks. 1 774 * Height of the Water. Time by the Clock. F. 1. H ' tf ' F. 1. H ' 2 4 20 20 \ April 9 2 if 21 40 |2 3 20 25 2 2 f 21 45 2 2 20 35 2 3 21 50 2 If 20 40 2 4 2i 55 2 if 20 50 O --- 10. I 4 3 1 2 2 j 21 0 l 4 f 3 5 2 if 21 10 l 5 3 10 2 Of 2 i 20 r 5 3 *5 2 Of 2t 25 20 24,0 Low Water. i 5 3 20 2 Of 21 30 ' 5 f 3 2 5 2 Of 21 35 I * 5 t 3 30 Apparent Time. H Remarks. h April 9. 2 2 6,o|Hligh Water.
ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS. 81 Observations by Mr. Bay ley, at the Cape of Good Hope, Continued. Observations on the Tides. 1774. Height of the Water. Time by the Clock. Apparent Time. Remarks. 1 774* Height of the Water. fT rT Time by the Clock. Apparent Time. Remarks. F I. H ' H ' H ' H ' O April 10. 1 5f 3 35 O April 10. r 4 3 55 I 5 3 40 1 3s 4 0 l 44 3 45 I 2| 4 5 I 4l 3 50 I 2 4 10 The above Observations were made in the fame manner as those which Mr. Bayley made at New Zealand and Otaheite; but it is to be noted, that the o, or beginning of the divisions of his instrument, was placed five feet seven inches higher at the time of high water, than it was at low ; from which quantity, if seven inches, the difference of the heights of high and low water, by the instrument, be subtracted, there will remain five feet for the quantity which the tide flowed on this day. Observations made on the Island Ohitahoo, one of the Marquesas. Observations for the Latitude. 1774 - h April 9. O - 10. a / 35 18 Supplement to the double altitude of the o's L. L. 1'4 to be added. 36 3 Ditto. Error of the Quadrant, T 50' to be added. Error of the Quadrant, The first of these Observations gives 9° 55'^ South for the Latitude; and the latter 9° 55' 4 They were taken from a quicksilver horizon with a Hadley's Sextant, and by the back Obser' vation.
82 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS. Observations made on the Island Ohitahoo, one of the Marquesas, Continued, Observations for the Dip of the Magnetic Needle's South End. Face of the Instrument. Face of the Instrument. Face of the Instrument. 1 774* East. West. East. West. East. | West. O ' Q 0 O y ' *9 30 l 9 15 j 8 3° l 9 20 11 30 X 1 20 J 9 45 iS iZ '7 50 19, 30 11 40 " 35 17 30 17 xo 15 50 l 9 40 18 O 17 45 15 40 19 0 18 °5 18 OS 16 0 19 0 18 10 18 l 5 15 5° l 9 05 The above Observations were made on three different days, the guard not staying long enough on shore to permit me to take more at one time, nor even to balance the Needle with more accuracy. I imagined that I had changed the Poles of the Needle between every day's Observations; but the near agreement which is between the first and second, and the great disagreement between these and the Observations of the third day, incline me to believe that I made some mistake, and did not actually change them the first time. Observations on the Tides. The high surf, and small time that I had an opportunity of being on shore, rendered it impossible for me to make either very accurate or very regular Observations of this kind; but I gathered, in the best manner I could, that it was high water on ? April 8, 1774, about one o'clock in the afternoon, and that it had fallen about 3^ feet at seven o'clock, when I went on board, and I believe it was near, if not quite, low water. I got no Observations on the 9th ; but on D the 10th it was low water about nine in the morning, and and high water about three in the afternoon, certainly not sooner j and the water flowed nearly four feet. It was low water on L morning the nth, about 10 o'clock, and the water ebbed out, from the last night's tide, about four feet. It will readily be understood, that too much stress must not be laid on these Observations, when I declare that the surf generally broke on the shore as high as myself. I had no Observations for determining the Longitude of this place while here, except by the watch ; but by the mean of a great many taken, some before we arrived, and others after we left the place, and reduced very carefully by the watch, it appeared to be 220° 5/4 East.
astronomical observations "3 Observations made on Point Venus, in Otaheite. ¥ h D S 8 n ¥ h 1 7 74* Lc Vv Equal Altituc Times by the Clwer I Middle ire. j Wire. es. )ck B., Upper Wire. Zenith Distance. Time of apparent Noon by the Clock. H S 'f 0 v H / April 22. 50 3i : 2 I 52 27 I *72 0 O 52 531 54 5 °t 56 46 J ' 59 26 O 1 47 4 11 [45 0 0 2 20 4 45 7 7 43.89 -2 3- 3 6 1 2 l 9 54 4 34 3 ( 32 10 \ A tl 0 O 39 48 37 26 35 o6z 1 T-i) 4.6 48 22 45 6 44 24 46 48 42 44 274 51 j 72 0 0 - 25. 33 29 23 35 39 37 52 t 0 0 3 6 °7f 38 24 40 35 45 20 23 47 35 49 49f a n 0 48 05 LO 21 52 Zb [ 49 26 -- 2 6. 2 55.03 5 8 32 '9 5 3 6 16 04 0 3 591 48s J 49 40 0 r? 24s 5 15 1 if *3 of [52 0 0 20 °9 r7 55 t i5 44f 8 10 284 54 i 22 10 12 27i 534 12 H 26 s 52 ■70 40 0 4i 44 52 37 23 44 46 6f 5i4 46 49 20-f- 7 0 0 - 27. 2 29 19,91 15 16 49 33 t 5 I l 14 34f 20 12 64- 1 1 0 0 47 32s 6 45 47 34 59 43 46 % 40 0 28. 25 01 23 27 iof 29 ,9 , j 55 4.0 0 27 40 29 50 31 59-^ --- 29. 2 34 03.57 40 14 5 38 °3 35 53 \,r 42 52 40 46 38 3b \ DO 40 0 46 38 22 48 4*£ 50 43 J .64 20 0 5* "2f 53 14f' 9 12 34s 3l; 0 0 11 14 584 554 1 4 17 20f 204 ;47 40 0 SO- 18 Us 2 36 28,90 O °3 6f 5 4 5 57 0 42 40 55 58 ^ 47 40 0 23 26 34 o 6 | 6 21 24 32 04 '9 22 20 0 - 54 57 *7f 06 23 56 59 36 25 58 1 53 4'i- \si 0 0 Phenomena and Remarks. O's U. JL. O's L. L. O's U. L. 0 S Li L. Easterly. !:q w Westerly. O's L. L O's U. o'sL. o'sU.L." o's U. L. 1 O's L. L.J O s L* L* ^ Su: fwesteri,. G'sU.lJ o's U. L.-* o : 1 u.l: Easter,y ' O's L. L.J o's L. L o' s sl.l: Wesl ^- O's U. L. J o's l.*l! S Easterly - O's L. L. ' | Westerly. O's U. L. o'sU. L.-j O S L. I_j* v r7 n. i O's U.L.f Ea(ltrl ! r " O's L. L. o's L. L.-j o : sl.l: w ' stCT| y- O'sU. L . 1 , Easterly. z
84 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS Observations made on Point Venus, in Otaheite, Continued 1 7 74- n Equal Altitudes. Times by the Clock B. O May i > 6 . o Lower Wire. Middle Wire. Upper Wire. H ' ** >8 E 5 16 12 13 54 21 i 8 f 19 1 16 44t 47 n- 23 49 E 51 43 49 59 52 Hi 54 29 35 21 ? 5 33 06 3° 51 3" 08 35 53i 33 39 54 5i 22 56 56 59 0 57 26 59 30 1 33 33 37t 23 35 48 s 37 59 S 6 1 9 38 30 40 42 53 56 5 5i 44 49 32 56 38 54 25 52 H 32 53 6 3° 46 ? 18 35 25 33 21 3i 38 29 23 40 4i 42 524 41 ui 43 24 45 36 48 37 23 50 5 2 i 53 7 5i 23 53 38 s 55 54 48 43t 5 46 28 s 44 Hi S l 29 b 49 14 47 0 58 56 5 5 b 43 i 54 3i j 39 59 27 ? 57 Hi 0 59i 23 3 6 5 10 3 35t 5 4°f 7 44 45 8 23 47 22 49 35 47 5*t 5° 06 S 2 20 57 13 5 55 0 59 57 45i 55 32 41 3"i ; 6 37 20 i 6 42 0 39 56 23 27 I5i '-7 44 36 51 4-l 23 33 52 ^ 02 34 21 36 3 2 i 38 40 i 15 44 6 >3 3 2 i 11 22 18 24 16 Hi 14 04 Zenith Distances. 51 o o ?53 4 o O \53 40 o f 65 00 57 0 0 57 o o 165 o o |57 20 © |55 20 o 55 20 o \ 57 20 ° ^ 65 40 o ^56 40 o I I J 56 40 o 165 40 o ] 61 20 O } 60 O 60 o o Time of apparent Noon by the Clock. H ' 2 37 54,63 2 42 46,7Z 2 45 14,l 8 2 50 10,OZ 2 52 39, l 5 2 55 08,z8 Phenomena and Remarks. ' | Westerly. ©'s L. L. o's U. L, s : lu:L:} Wester| r- O 's U. L. 1 o-lu:!;: E " steH >-- © 5 s L. L. J © s L. L. 0 S Ui L. TTT tv 1 o'sL.L4 Westerl r- O 's U. L. j O's U. L.J O S L.. Lj. ! p n | g' s u, l. ^ Ea ^ erl y- 0'sL.L.j O's L. L.J 0 S X-J. Xj* ( n 1 o's L. L. O'S U. L.j. o's U. L.J O Si L. Lii j r n, , o's U. L. .> Easterl y- o's L. L.j O 's L. L.J O^L'L.'>^ly. O's U. L.j O's U. L.J O's L. L.j
ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS 85 Observations made on Point Venus, in Otaheite, Continued. Equal Altitudes. Times by the Clock B. Zenith 1774. Lower Middle Upper Distance. Wire. Wire. Wire. ✓ " H ' " / " G May 8. 22 18* 3 8 rZT 6 22 48s 23 40 25 42 34 ■ 6 i 20 0 [59 20 0 40 54s 43 6 45 l8 5 1 44i 54 29 23 53 5 s 5 6 44 56 13 59 c> j 56 40 0 r - 9- , I 0 37 3 *3 5 58 22 619 14 ni - 16 53 6 11 59 9 49 12 Ziz [59 20 0 Time of apparent Noon by the Clock. TT~' ~ Phenomena and Remarks. 2 57 39-25 G's L. L. o'sU.L Westerly. o'sU. L.l O S Li ( 1~' st 1 o'sU.L.( Easterl ) r - O's L. L.j G's L. LP o's U. L. G's L. L. > Westerly. G's U.L.j 1774- Ec Times Lower Wire. [ual Altitude by the Wat Middle Wire. '8. ch K. Upper Wire. Zenith Distance. I Time of apparent Noon by the Watch. H / // O H y/ S April 22. 33 33 8 35 53 s 38 16s 45 3 6 26 38 5°i 4i I 3 T? -- 23- 8 11 10 53 34.72 10 *3 Zri 26 s 13 11 5 5 8 49 45 45 0 O 5 25. 12 15 20 °5 8 H i7 34f 20 j 16 >9 36 ? 49 40 O S - 26 10 53 39.55 32 0 l3 29 45 27 28| • 4Q 40 O 34 47 32 32 30 17 % - 28. 45 21 7 47 12 49 20 ; 55 40 O 47 4if 49 5 1 52 of ? --- 29. 10 53 46,57 59 2 39 i U 13 14 57 0 29 10 55 58 40 O 4 22f 7 6 8 27 57 8 10 77 P 20 O 1? -- Zv- 3 8 41 36 39 1 10 53 5'.i5 40 43 34 7 >4 33 04 iff i"* 20 O 10 -3 32s 21 8 12 l 5 5 1 38 '5 *7 08 5 5 l I 51 0 O G May 1. 38 1 10 53 53.68 34 12 >3 3i 55 29 Ui O Q 37 2 34 44 32 28I p 1 Phenomena and Remarks. G's U. L. G's L. L." J Easterl 7 : G's L. L. G's U. L O'sU.L G's L. L * | Westerly. ' ^ Easterly. ' | Westerly. g'sL.L G'sU.L ^L.'L:i Eisterl >'- o ; s s u.'L:l w ' M y- e'u.fcP™**- G's U. L. G's L. L. | Easterly. 0 S Li Li o's U. L * | Westerly.
86 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS Observations made on Point Venus, in Otaheite, Continued. -774- F May 3 V 6 . 8 . Equal Altitudes. Times by the Watch K. lower Wire. 4 7 6 41 42 49 § 45 3i ■2 31 5 13 41 24 43 55 42 Z6z 45 38s 53 3 55 49 Middle Wire. 11 7 6 12 8 45 7 45 oj 47 42 14 o 19 3 ° 14 39 181 41 5*4 7 45 8 47 50f 7 55 19 5 8 04 Upper Wire. Zenith Distance. 52 34l r 3 50 20 48 6 }55 20 0 55 20 53 5 i 40 5i4 2 46 H 0 33 f 58 21 \ S 7 20 0 5 28s 3 U4 I 44 47 12 7 49 25 51 384 1 56 40 0 49 55 52 94 54 254 ) ^ I 58 i 40| 25 -3 56 59 274 I2t 56 59 r 1 } 5 6 40 0 3' 34 26 5 7 33 36 364 l64 35 38 46 27 | 60 | 0 0 14 4 8| 14 12 374 10 27 | 60 0 0 i7 28 15 19 >3 84 U3 CO 7 37 45 39 54 (59 20 0 Hf 40 26 42 374 49 51 03 s 47i 7 5k 54 17 24 53 56 3'i k8i ^56 J 40 0 57 0 *9f 5 13 55 57 5 5'4 52 55 49i 38 ^56 40 0 10 53 i 14 8 404 6 294 ] 59 20 0 13 34 9 12 8 15 10 48 47 11 49 54 \ 6 5 157 o 58 08 , ° 494 v 57 39 49 ^ 65 47 194 ?57 50 03 57 33 f | Time of apparent Noon by the Watch. H ro 54 7>5 6 o 194 20 55 20 o 10 54 18,87 O's U. L. i <D's L. L.J ©'s L. L.1 0 S U. L. [ ur n . o's L. L. Westerly. ©'s U. L.j ©'s U. L.1 © S b. Lf. I "-i n 1 o'sU. l. f-Easteriy. g'sL. Lj ©'s L. L.1 ©'s U.L. I w " , 9 '.LL. ©'s U. L.j G -s u. 4 1 Wcstcr| ;'- o'sE:L.'i Easter| r- o's U. L. 1 © S Li" L" \ (7 n 1 ©'s U. ^ s isterly. ©'s L. L. J ©'s L. L.1 o :s S L:L.| Wcstcr, r- O'sU. L.j The Clock was fixed up in the usual manner, and the pendulum, in general, while here, vibrated i° 35' each way from the perpendicular. 10 54 24,69 1 ° 54 33,'9 io 54 39'74 Phenomena and Remarks.
ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS 87 Observations made at Point Venus, in Otaheite, Continued. L n ? h D t 1774 Meridian Zenith Distances. Exterior Arch reduced. Interior Arch. Exterior Arch. O ✓ // G. 8. V. -K' O ' May 4 - 33 6 25 35 I 9 5 33 6 51 33 38 20 35 3 17 9 33 38 33 5 * 33 5 6 7 36 0 26 24 33 56 49 i 33 23 28 35 2 15 13 32 23 41 39 55 40 42 2 12 18 39 56 12 61 56 30 65 0 9 16 61 56 43 6. 33 40 25 35 3 2 l 20 33 40 30 34 12 15 36 i 30 12 34 12 27 39 55 55 42 2 '3 4 39 56 24 61 56 37 66 0 10 0 61 56 54 --* 7 * 34 29 38 36 3 6 15 34 30 4 33 57 8 36 0 28 20 33 57 38 5 i 17 7 54 2 27 12 5 i >7 29 r 3 ° 32 52 32 2 11 18 30 33 > 5 i 39 55 57 42 2 13 10 39 5 b 30 61 56 45 66 0 10 8 61 57 2 " 9 - 34 30 0 36 3 7 5 34 3 ° 2 1 35 02 22§ 37 i 16 20 35 2 4 °f 5 i l 7 25 54 2 28 7 5 i 18 2 X 30 3 2 42 32 2 11 8 3 ° 33 5 i 3 8 27 *5 4 i 0 3 10 38 27 44 8 24 55 8 3 29 25 8 25 21 10. 30 32 37 32 2 io 12 3 ° 32 43 38 27 12 4 i 0 3 15 38 27 49 Barom. Inches. L hello Tent morn. Out. Z0,OZ CO OO 93 30,02 874 944 30,02 72 7 2 i 30,02 90 97 30,03 7 i t 72 f 30,03 88^ 9 li 30,03 80; 81 30,03 78 79 i 30,03 69; 7 o 4 30,03 84 9 1 30,03 7^4 774 30,03 75 76 30,03 73 724 30,03 734 77 t Phenomena and Remarks. O's U. JL. ©*s L. L. O's L. L. O's U. L. " Pavonis. " Cygni. o's U. L. O s L. L. " Pavonis. a. Cygni. O's L. L. o's U. L. j 3 Navis. Regulus. K Pavonis. a, Cygni. O's U. L. O's L. L. (3 Navis. Regulus. y Leonis. Antares. Regulus. y Leonis. For the Error of the Line of Collimation of the Quadrant. 1774 . Zenith Distance of the Upper Hole. Quadrant direct. Zenith Distance of the Lower Hole. Quadrant inverted. Errors. Interior Arch. Exterior Arch. Interior Arch. Exterior Arch. Interior Arch. Exter. Arch. Q G. S. V. "+ u ' ■" G. 8 . V. "+ " V. " May 3. 1 Evening. -244 - 1 4 l - 1 8 A a
ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS. 88 Observations made on Point Venus, in Otaheite, Continued. For the Error of the Line of Collimation of the Quadrant. 1773 - Zenith Distance of the Upper Hole. Quadrant direct. Zenith Distance of the Lower Hole. Quadrant inverted. Interior Arch. Exterior Arch. Interior Arch. Exterior Arch. O / /I G. S. V. +" 0 ' " G. S. V. +" May to. r 89 35 50 95 2 10 0 90 24 48 96 1 24 18 1 ' 36 5 9 25 24 52 24 22 j Evening, j 36 10 10 5 24 55 25 0 > 36 0 10 8 24 50 24 18 - i 35 S 2 9 23 - J r 89 39 5 95 2 17 0 90 21 3O 96 1 17 6 -) 39 5 *7 3 35 18 ' 0 39 0 16 18 40 * 7 22 Morning. ' 39 10 16 25 35 2 7 10 39 0 16 20 45 -7 20 I 38 55 1 6 18 40 17 12 J Errors. Interior Arch -25-3- -20 ■21 Exter. Arch. V. -1 10 -1 6 '33 4 Mean, The Latitude of Point Venus, determined by Observations made with Hadley's Quadrant. 774 - h O a s s b April 23, - 24. -26. - 27. - 29. ZO. O May 1, D - 2. 3 - 8 . 10. Altitude of 0's Declination. Latitude S L. L. v ' 0 ' 0 ' " 59 3 °i 12 26 54 N. 17 30 41 59 us 12 46 48 29 47 58 5 't 1 3 25 59 30 46 58 3 2 f -3 45 *4 3 o 3 l 57 544 14 23 24 29. 1 6 57 3 6 £ 14 41 38 29 4 57 J8J 14 59 58 28 59 57 01 15 18 2 28 9 56 42 f -5 35 52 29 48 55 17 17 1 6z 3 ° 5 54 46 | 17 33 16 28 20 The mean of all is n 2 9 35 For the Dip of the Needless South End. Face of the Instru- Face of the Instru- ment. menr. East. West. East. West. O / 0 O ' 3 1 to 3 1 05 3 l 0 27 5° 31 10 29 45 28 30 27 40 31 3° 3° 25 28 40 27 45 30 45 - 33 0 31 0 ^ 28 10 30 3 ° 33 v 29 471 27 5*4 30 10 31 0 27 5"t 30 40 32 10 30 454 3 1 30i 30 10 3 1 40 ZO 45 t 3 1 3°r 29 584 Mean Dip. *2* The poles were changed between the Obiervations put down in the two first, and those put down in the two last columns..
ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS. 89 Observations at Point Venus, in Otaheite, Continued. Lunar Observations for the Longitude of the Place. Apparent Time. Zenith Distance of the §or *. H ' " V t 1 '774. D April 25. 26. 27, -9 30, Time by the Clock. H~ 12 39 33 41 ;i 44 31 ! 46 Z1 50 02 52 52 13 10 35 13 16 16 41 21 1 23 7 26 41 5 5 54 5 8 3 2 c> 43 12 02 41 12 04 21 12 06 24 12 l6 08 l8 56 20 2 2 22 05 23 56 27 56 II 40 44 43 01 45 °2 46 25 15 9 28 zz Z> 54 33 4 6 36 o 37 55 39 44 i9 8 ; 4 10 58 12 29 14 4 13 26 16 49 18 ,8 i-9 43 21 15 44 57*i + 1 *4* 12 38 53,4 49 01 1 57 -Sz 25 37* Altitude, or Zenith Distance of the D. Distance of the ])'s L. from the 0 or *. e Q 18 nl U. L. 53 55? >7 41/1 53 5 6 17 *4l 51 57 l6 5 6 ? 53 S 8 i l6 >9 53 59? -5 47 54 O ~ 2l"i - z 36" 13 z 3l 46 23 13 04 23 12 39! 22 12 16s 20| 12 11* 181 II 571 68 17? 37 59* U. L. 19s 37 22s 20| 36 5 2 * 22 Z6 25 22% 36 0-1 23 35 32* ^ 23* - 21 i + 2' 35" 33 l8 3. 3i 52 ' 32 391 51 32 20 50* 31 S 6 * 49* 31 31A 49 30 35 ts 47* 54 59z L- L- 30 3-? 54 29* 3-i 54 0 A 33* 53 4't - 2i"-| 34*. + 2 39" to u -t o 3 ZO,0,- 7*1 Longitude East. 210 54 06 Remarks, Le. Error of the Quadrants, 1 30.05 > 30,07 72- 73* 210 11 15 2110; o | Errors of the Quadrants 1 30.07 • 30,08 73* 77 210 29 I5 210 4 9 7- =o= immerged behind the J's bright Limb. Errors of the Quadrants., 67 55^ U - L * 67 3- 67 02^ 66 37§ 66 14 -21 "4 4i 3* 23 12 22 53 22 22 2' 53 21 31 + 6 r 6 6 5* 31 6 5'! 7 13 7 33 7 5'i 811; 8 3°? 8 52 U. L. ' 2' XJ. L. 21 '33 25 24* 234 2 2 | + I 33 29 29 3° 30* 3°* 3I i Z-* 3*1 > 30,02 81 210 40 7* 8" Errors of the Quadrants. >30,02 -t-2 50 76i 210 3 45 Errors of the Quadrants D and Re- gulas, west of her. V and An- tares, east of her. D and Regular, west of her. 1) and An- tares, east of her. D and Spi. -A, west of her. Very certain. Q and 5 by the back observation. 5 and An tares, west of her.
9 o ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS Observations made at Point Venus, in Otaheite, Continued. Lunar Observations for the Longitude of the Place. '774- Time by the Clock. Apparent Time. Zenith Distance of the 0 or *. Altitude, or Zenith Distance of the D . Distance of the 3>'s L. from the 0 or 4c, H ' " H ' " Q t 0 V " h April 30. 19 24 47 9 41 U. L. 70 47 26 43 10 08 46 28 08 10 37* 45* 29 21 10 4S 4 45 30 46 32 2 5 59 535 -30,02 ] 30.03 79 Longitude East. 210 17 36 210 2 8 [ Errors of the Quadrants. 30.03 > 30,04 79 79 210 11 45 209 44 15 Errors of the Quadrants. '30.04 74 210 18 30 Errors of the Quadrants. 30.04 32 209 45 18 Errors of the Quadrants. Remarks. v and a Pe- gafi, east of of her. 0 and 1). 0 and L. Errors as above. 0 and 3) ■ I) and An- tares, west of her. 3) and 0.
ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS yr Observations made on Point Venus, in Otaheite, Continued. Lunar Observations for the Longitude of the Place -774- Time by the Apparent Zenith Distance of the Altitude, or ZenithDistance Distance of P '* L. from i I M 30.04 73 210 23 54 p and Antares, West of her. 53 z 4 2 S I si 26 55 20 z 4 49* 26s 57 24 24-J 2 7* i 58 53 124 O z8i - zi"t + 2 ' 54" Errors of the Quadrant. -3 45 07 55 08s U. L. 59 23 U. L. 79 ArH 46 52 54 47* 59 03 46; / 48 18 49 37 54 3 z tV 54 15§ 58 44 58 23 45* V 45. s > 30*02 82 209 38 15 0 and B. 50 52 54 °It'x 58 05 44* v 52 08 53 4-6+ 57 47 44i - + 3' 0 + 2 4S"l Errors of the Quadrant* s - 4- 20 20 55 32 1 if L. L. 88 s7 2 23 0 3i 44 88 58 24 24 31 26 88 5 8| 2 S 35 21 8 88 59t D and Antares, West of her. 26 53 28 17 ;8 3 2| 5 38 39 18 38* 40 52 4 2 34 39| 39$ , J 31 8 J- U. L. + z ' 45 Errors of the Quadrant 0 12 50 71 38 U. L. 54 S 2 1 is 36 5° 39l 71 6 S 1 0 and P . 17 2; 19 23 50 19I 49 5 6 * 70 47 70 27 5°i 5° > 30,02 84 209 42 20 21 30 49 34- 70 9* 50, 23 -7 49 >4 " 6 9 45, " 49* " - -I 5 + 4' 34 + 2' 47 Errors of the Quadrant.
92 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS Observations on Point Venus, in Otaheite, Continued. Lunar Observations for the Longitude of the Place. Time Apparent Time. ZenithDistance Altitude,orZe- Distance of the 03 H Longitude East. 1774 - by the Clock. of the EA or ** nith Distance of the ]). I) 's L. from & or *. O B s* p Remarks. H " " H ' " 0 9 ' 0 ' O ' " ■ ? May 6. 19 47 27 ("65 2i| L. L. 66 58 1 49 2 5 64 55 66 58s 50 43 5 1 57 26 Ol| 4 64 36I 64 20 66 59* 67 of ' 30,03 7 2 ! 210 43 0 D and a Aqui- lae, West of her. 53 5 64 04s 67 o* 54 9 63 49 1 - 67 1 55 -9 .63 33 i 67 j* J 20 I5 31 •58 S8J 67 8 16 45 58 40; 8f v and a Aqui- lae, West of her. 18 I4 19 5 -7 4-5 58 20f 58 IO 9 9 * y 30,03 7 2 i 210 48 27 20 I 57 56 IO T 21 0 57 42 >04 " 52 20 U. L. - 2i"i + 2' 19 Errors of the Quadrant* 0 9 54 72 0 L. L. 4 2 SSi ' 12 9 5 - 534 72 02 54-1 I 3 30 51 4 °i 72 O 54 15 14 ;i 21 71 58 534 >6 35 *7 54 5 1 ° 5 l 50 52 7 i ss, 7 ' 49 * 54 53 * > 30,03 86i 209 59 0 H and D. l 9 3 50 38 71 46 53 20 23 50 24-II 71 42 5 2 t 21 54 50 7 71 38 5>1 , 23 5 49 55 7 i Z6 5 'i J - 21' + 3' °" 4. 2' 17" Errors of the Quadrant. h - 7 20 39 30 65 52J L. L. 78 37 4 ° 35 65 38 38 5 and 381 I 44 4 ° 64 43 3"1 J - zi"§ + 2 ' 57 " Eriorsof the Quadrant. In the preceding Observations, where the objects are the Moon and a Star, the Star's true zenith distance is put down as it was computed; and the Moon's zenith distance was observed with the Astronomical Quadrant, except in the Observations of the Moon's distance from " Aqui- lae, on May 5th, where both zenith distances are computed. Where the objects are the Moon and Sun, the Sun's zenith distance was observed with the Astronomical Quadrant, and the Moon's altitude with a Hadley's Sextant. In every instance, the true time was got from that Ihewn by the Clock.
ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS. 93 Observations on Point Venus, in Otaheite, Continued. Observations for the Variation of the Compass. * 1 774 * Zenith Distance of the 0 's L . Azimuth of the 1 Varia- 0 's center. | tion East. 1774 * Zenith Distance of the 0 's L. Azimuth of the 1 0 's center. | ^Variation East. o ' " O ' j Q ' 1 O ' j -- I Q ' April 26. 73 24 40 U. L. N.64 37, E. } 5 May 2- 81 27 10 L. L. N. 64 40 E. ~1 72 Z6 4 ! 63 47 r f 5 * 5 t 81 11 25 64 30 J 6 io| 7 - 55 35 63 10 ) 80 31 3 64 10 J 00 M * 74 ss zo N. 64 i2* E. "> s - 4. 85 2 55 U. L. N. 77 40 W. J 73 56 55 63 22* > 5 26 85 34 3 ° 77 47 l 5 5 si 73 17 40 63 i 7 i 3 86 5 17 78 5 J ■ ? -- 9 - 75 9 " I" L. N. 74 40 W. J ¥ - 6. 76 11 30 U. L. N. 61 50 E. i 75 47 7 74 5-r > 5 - 9 s 75 45 55 61 40 j 5 2 3 f 76 24 8 75 > z i 3 75 *9 3 ° 61 15 3 79 40 4 ° N- 64 55 E. 1 b - 7- 83 26 30 L. L. N. 75 45 W. , 78 44 5 ° 64 30 t 6 of 84 2 38 76 0 r 5 48 78 25 0 64 15 Z 84 29 40 76 * 7 i j 75 55 30 U-L. N. 64 0 E. 1 82 43 0 E. L. N. 62 2; E. ► 5 3 80 55 55 62 50 J I I O 78 26 50 L. L. ' N. 75 40 W. 1 1 79 20 12 76 0 >5 z6J- Altit. K's L. L. 79 5 " 58 76 25 3 ' 80 48 30 U. L. N. 65 15 E. J 5 - 9. 3 6 15 N. 76 30 W. * • 80 13 30 65 £ 5 49 t 2 33 45 76 30 j f 5 34 i 79 43 3 ° 65 oz* 3 2 8 zo 76 40 j 0 May 1. 76 14 55 U. L. N. 75 20 W. 1 7 33 3 ° N. 74 50 W. 7 76 40 5 75 '5 £ 5 575 740 75 10 ? 6 ic* 77 8 30 75 2 5 3 6 35 zo 75 22 1 - 2 80 29 3; L. L. N. 64 37i E. 5 79 53 0 64 -5 f 5 49 ? 79 >5 20 64 20 3 * 774 * sime of apparent Noon by Clock. Syderial Time of apparent Noon. Clock before Syderial Time. Clock loses on Syderial Time. H . ' " H " " ✓ ✓✓ r ■;> April 23. F -26 s - z 7 - ¥ -29. 7 ? - 30. 0 May 1 . 9 - 3 - L - 4 - ¥ - 6 b - 7 - 0- 8. v - 9 2 19 43,89 2 26 55,03 2 29 19,91 z 34 03.57 2 36 28,90 2 37 54,68 2 42 46,73 2 45 14,18 2 50 10,05 2 S 2 39.>5 2 55. 08,38 2 57 Zy , z 5 Mean (reject 2 Z I 5-76 2 13 31,18 2 17 17,39 2 24 51,21 2 28 38,91 2 32 27,21 2 40 05,42 2 43 55,37 2 51 37,07 2 55 28,78 2 59 21,07 3 3 - 3,97 ng thezothoi 17 28,13 13 23,85 12 2,52 9 - Z 'Z6 7 49-99 5 2 7>47 2 41,31 I l8,8l Clock slow. 1 27,02' 2 49,63 4 12,69 5 34 , 7 Z 'April) is > 21,43 1 21,33 1 25,08 - 22,37 2 * 22,52 i 23,08 1 22,5c 1 22,91 I 22 , 6 ) 1 23,0s I 22,03 I 22,64 As I had reason, when I went on shore at this place, to think I should not stay above two or three days, the Clock was first set up in the ship's tent; but on the 28th of April, finding that I was likely to stay longer, and that the Clock was liable to be disturbed, I removed the ship's tent, and erected the Observatory over the Clock as it stood. * The Clock seems here to have stopped exactly one minute: I know not how to account for it, as I never left either the cafe or face of the Clock unlocked. By taking the first and last day's Observations* the Clock's loss is 1 2 2",6 8
94 astronomical observations Observations on Point Venus, in Otaheite, Continued. Computations of the Rate which Mr. Kendall's Watch went at. 1774* Jj April 2z,. $ .- 26. s - 27. ¥--9- b-zo. S May $ > s ■ ¥ b ■ r • 1. z-. 4. 6. 7> 8 . 9- Time of apparent Noon by the Clock. H 2 ly 43,89 2 26 55,03 2 29 19,9! 2 34 03,57 2 36 28,90 - 37 54.68 2 42 46,73 2 45 14,18 2 50 10,03 2 52 39,15 2 55 08.38 3 2 57 39,25 3 Time by Cloclc when the Watch was compared* Time past N e on by the Clock* H 40 09,75 5 3M° 40 40,01 44 *7>5 C 44 38.50 45 01,50 49 45.77 53 07.50 55 5^.-5 58 15>7 5 4 36,50 6 0,50 "77" 20 25,86 -58 36,47 u 20,09 10 13,93 9,6(3 6,82 59"°<>- 53.32 42,20 36,6c 28,12 8 7 6 7 5 5 9 8 21,25 S-3' Time past Noon by the Watch. Time by the Watch when compared. 2,0 25.59 1,12 1,0 0,80 0,70 0,69 °.77 0,56 0,55 o.9Z 0,82 . 20 158 il 10 8 I 7 5 5 9 S 23,86 20,88 18.97 12,93 8.L0 6,12 58.35 5r>55 41,60 36,05 27,19 20,43 H Time of apparent Noon by the Watch. H 36,14 39-l- 41,12 47,07 51,20 53*88 01,65 07.45 18,34 23.95 32,81 39.57 Mean Time of apparent Neon. H 58 57 57 57 57 15.31 41,30 30,90 11,65 2,86 56 54,61 56 39.78 56 33,22 21,78 16,93 I2.7 2 9**3 56 56 56 Watch too flow for mean Time, Watch gains on mean Time, H ' 4 39->7 4 2,18 49,78 24.58 11,06 o.73 38.13 25,77 3.44 1 52,98 1 39.9' 1 29,56 iz,33 12,40 12,60 12.92 10.93 11,30 12.36 11,17 10,46 13,07 10.36 The mean is 11,81 If the first and last Comparison be taken, the gain of the Watch will be 11",8; ; by a mean of all the Observations of equal altitudes taken by the Watch, its gain is 1 r',72 ; but the first and last day's Observation gives 11",95, and the mean of the four is 1 i",83z. Computations for the Latitude of the Place. 1774- tz May It- b - V May T? May $ - D May S - Latitude by Interior I Exterior 'Arch. j Arch. Declination. Q ' " \ O ' " O ' " iSy Observations of the Sun. 17 29 3 17 29 9 17 28 38 •7 z8 5 Si 17 29 o| 17 29 to| 17 29 25! >7 28 34?- 17 29 17 29 08 15 53 27 N. 16 10 46 16 27 49 16 44 36 17 17 194 •7 28 571 17 29 6 Mean. By O jservations of a Cygni. >7 29 4 i >7 29 i'l \y 29 20 17 29 6 17 29 164 17 29 24s 44 28 465 N. 17 2912-i 17 29 15s Mean. Bv Observations of Regulus. 17 29 17! • 17 29 9 t • 17 29 3? 17 29 29J 17 29 20 >7 28 57I |i3 3 43 t 17 29 lOj 17 29 15! | Mean. By Observations of y Leonis. >7 29 3i . >7 29 o| >7 29 zo\ >7 29 25 J 20 58 32J 17 29 0(5,17 29.22! | Mean. >7 29 5i l *7 29 15 £ Mean of the nor- 1 them stars. 1774- If May 5 ¥ - 6 b - 7 T? May 7 1) - D May 9 Latitad Interior Arch. : by the Exterior Arch. Declination. - V * 0 ' " ° - " By Observations of a Pavom s. 17 29 49 . >7 29 34 . 17 29 32 -7 -9 29 17 29 17 17 29 11 |57 25 534S. Mean. 17 29 384 t7 29 19 By Observations of 0 Navis. ,17 29 58! 17 29 404 17 29 Z6' 17 29 14! 68 47 5i'-S. Mean. >7 29 494 17 29 25! By an Observation of Antares. ■ 17 29 45! 17 29 314 1 2? C4 26,7 17 29 444 17 29 54 17 29 2 si 17 29 15 Mean of all the southern stars Mean of all the northern stars. >7 29 24! 17 29 20-5 17 29 22i 17 29 13! 17 29 u 17 29 178. Mean of the two arches. Mean last year. Mean of Mr. Green's Observations. Latitude of Point Venus.
ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS 95 Observations on Point Venus, in Otaheite, Continued. Observations on tile Tides. The very inconsiderable height to which the Tides rife here, according to the Observations of Mr. Green and Captain Cook, in the year 1769, surprised most persons who had considered these matters, as being very far short, indeed, of what might have been expef^ed from theory: There appeared, however, no reason to suspect the Observations, and I was rather inclined to doubt my fenses, on seeing indications of much higher Tides than these Observations would admit of, when we arrived in Oaitipeha Bay, which lies on the N. W. side of the lesser peninsula of Otaheite. Repeated Observation, however, although I had no opportunity of making any real experiments for the purpose, had so far convinced me of the truth of it before we left the place, that I went on shore at Point Venus in full confidence of proving, by experiment, that some error had happened in the Observations made by the abovementioned Gentlemen. My disappointment will therefore be easily imagined, on finding the Observations (fee p. 56.) correspond so nearly with theirs as not to differ more than three or four inches. Indeed it was scarcely possible for either of us to mistake much, as the water is generally so smooth within the reef which surrounds the Point, as to make one inch in the height of the water a very perceptible quantity. So near an agreement amongst the Observations of four persons, our short stay at the place, and the attention which it was necessary for me to pay to other matters, might all contribute to make me rest, at this time, contented with the fact, as is but too often done, without enquiring into the cause of it; but on our arrival at Ulietea, finding that the highest Tides did not exceed seven or eight inches, I was again led to consider the matter, and the circumstances which might occasion it. The extent of the reef here, and the prodigious sea which broke over it, could not but attract my notice. It was the most tremendous sight I ever saw, especially when warping in, through a gap in this dreadful surf, which was scarce a cable's length wide, and against a rapid current. It readily occurred to all of us that this current was caused by the vast body of water which was thrown over the reef into the space between it and the island by the sea, as it was obvious it had no other way out again; but I did not think of applying this circumstance to the solution of the Problem which had so often puzzled me, until I found the Tides rife so much less here than they did, even at Otaheite, and that the current which we had found to oppose our entrance, ran also against the Tide of Flood, which was then making. It was obvious, from the former of these circumstances, that, let the cause be what it would, it must be greater here than there; and from the second, that the waters within the reef must be continually higher than without; and that of course, the Tide of Flood must have made considerably before it could at all influence the height of the water within ; and if this difference of the heights of the water within and without was any thing considerable, a Tide of two or three feet, which is all I ever experienced at any small island in this ocean, would scarce affect it at all. It will moreover be obvious to every one who compares the annexed Map of Point Venus, and the reef surrounding it, which is laid down with the utmost accuracy, with Captain Cook's Map of the west side of Ulietea, (fee Hawkfworth's account of his voyage in the Endeavour) which also is exceeding accurate, that this cause must here be much greater than at Point Venus, as C c uJiefetJLJ
g6 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS. Observations on Point Venus, in Otaheite, Continued. Observations on the Tides. the reef is not only of much greater extent, and of course the quantity of tVater thrown over greater, but also as there is only one opening, instead of two, for the discharge of the water that is thrown over. I may add likewise that the surf is, from whatever cause it may happen, generally much greater at Ulietea than at Otaheite. It is moreover evident, that if this be the cause, the Tides will be more sensible in or near the openings than farther within the reef; and so it appears to be from the Observations : for Captain Cook and Mr. Green tried them at the point A in the Map, and had only io or 12 inches at the Spring-tides. Mr. Bay ley and myself tried them at the point B, and had 14 or 15 inches, a day or two before the change; and lastly, I sounded across from the Observatory to the rock marked C in the Map, at high water, and had between seven and eight feet water, and yet many of our people walked across it at low water to gather shells on the rock. These were all the Experiments I was able to make for elucidating this affair, although I landed on Point Venus the second time, with a determined resolution to make some Experiments that might be decisive: But, after examining the coast both ways, as far as my other business would permit me to go, I found no place which was not sheltered by the reef in the fame manner that Point Venus is, and of course liable to the same objections, or on which a surf did not break so great as to render it totally impossible to make any observations that would turn to the least account. On the whole, I give it as my opinion, from the fullest conviction that the matter would allow of, that the absolute height of the Tides is the fame as it is in other parts of this widely extended ocean, viz. about three feet at the highest Spring-tides, and about two feet at the neaps. Observations on the Tides at Ohamaneno Harbour, in the Island of Ulietea. 1774- Apparent Time. Height of the Tides. H F. 1 . S May 25. 2 3 10 n - 26. 0 0 O 84 s -27. J 9 0 T? -- 28. 1 0 0 7 l 20 30 Q - 29. 1 55 0 7f 21 0 -----. J 3°. 2 30 0 7§ 21 3 ° s - 31. 3 30 0 7 k A"* 'j-i v Remarks. High Water. High Water. Low Water. High W ater. Low Water. High Water. Low Water. High Water. Low Water. High Water. The times of high and low water must not be too much relied on, as the small, and very flow rise of the water rendered it impossible to determine them with any accuracy: But the different heights of the water admitted of the most exact determination; the water having not the least motion at any time, so that one eighth of an inch was very discernible, and I am fully persuaded, from thence, that none of the numbers in the third column can err one-fourth of an inch.
Plate 111 . uphill ft. M*-:** 1 ^ T> / '■**,)(** ""- + *■& '*.K * ^ * *' V* *' xv A ,1/ A i 3 ^ - of - Poixt Venus aud flu E E >0 V V* * *% D n; ^nda ur d- D r y *V 'V* #-, Furfong'J'. o - I - I--1 - 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 %*- ** ... ,. 1 '!^p|l;^ j\ .The^t/crcF ud/ere Af r (y /vw/ 4' dczftd datr/t, tried' t/ie l/d-C'J PS. T/ictt where'M^BiX'ifl&if 4' 7 "1 oedfy tried tfie/n . g> T/if ft&tce of't/iF Ofee-rvafory C. A Roc A h/uvvT found ash// os'the- u ater of iS or It} irudn'o (j? fefd //fan fy c// X)D3^> .T/is Tecs' d'Urrouru/iiig- Point ' 7 twuiF .
r^v rfT''.'vi'.-.-. v- t** . r- *"-**?r; *A.iy( . \j -•' - I. ■ ! :■ ' E V'. v^l:-.,- ^ *• -IT. - ■ ■ w* si ,fiys i j-# '-'i I U^ 5 rV ?,-.•' ' •' . ^ . ; r^k-'W ^.Yf^ : : - ■ ■ wmsmm, ** 4 &. v* - -** "' r ^ IBiSs
ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS. Observations at the Island of Tanna, one of the New Hebrides. 1774. h August 6 O - 7 V 10 11. Equal Altitudes. Times by the Watch K. Lower Wire. 43 36 4 6 52 12 . 14, I 5 - 16. 18. 19. 6 58s 10 12 i 6 54 12 54 = •5 48: 38 401 4i 35 47 36| 41 48 44 56 12 54 28 36 39 *5 18 26 29 8 11 '7 20 34 37 43 46 12 *4 40 43 5 17- 21 40 41 55 50 54 40 38 29 40 3i 29s 16 4 51 27 I3l Middle Wire. H ' 9 46 16s 49 331 14 4 16 7 34 9 6 24s 9 -3 9 *5 -7i 18 10 14 - 14 39 12 H 45 17 48 8 9 44 23 -4 7 5f 9 27 33 9 30 3 1 9 38 50 14 13 08 16 14 14 24 29 27 24 9 ii 10 13 58 9 *9 58 22 49 14 32 19s 35 n 1441 11 44 0 9 14 21 17 8 14 38 10 40 56 Upper Wire. 48 57 1 34: 4 55 8 43 11 32! l 7 39 : 20 31s Zenith Distances Time of apparent Noon by the Watch. 0 ' H ' O O co 11 56 48,2 0 0 co 4- 54 20 0 t .52 4° 0 11 57 8,16 53 56 , 36 5>f J 52 40 42 59 45 49 £ } 54 46 58 j 47 ^ 47 20 49 40 o 50 9 20 20 o 7 42 30 0 44 25 10 39 l r 3 44i 22 4 2 5 2 13 27 16 15 22 *7 25 10 30 0 32 53 38 5Z£ 41 44 16 37 '9 26 47 4° o [47 40 }4 9 40 152 20 | 50 40 50 40 o J 52 20 Si 20 o zs 4'i!-' 20 0 " 57 r3'42 n 57 23,29 Phenomena and Remarks. o's U.L.f OW.L Elfc ^ O'sL. L.J O's L. L.' o'sU.L. O's L. L. O's U. L.j O S U. L, Inn , O's L. L. j Easterl 7* O's L. L.i 11 57 27,58 " 57 3i'72 Westerly. | Easterly. o's u. l.j o' S u.L., ) ' Ea ' lcrl y- •s L. L. j 's L. L.j 's U. L. I w , 's L. L. Westerly. 's U. L.j o's U. L.l O S L" L. ! T 7 n 1 O's U. i> Easterl y- O'sL. L.j o's L. L.j o'sU.L. I w " , O's L. L. ^Westerly. O's U. L.j O's L. L. 5 Easterl 7- O's L. L. O's U. L Westerly.
98 astronomical observations Observations at the Island of Tanna, one of the New Hebrides, Continued. Observations for the Variation of the Compass. *774- Time by the Watch K. Azimuth of the 0's Center. V aria- tion East. H " O / " August 8. 6 41 !7 N. 65 10 E.' 43 1 65 0 6 h 44 64 3° / 46 42 64 35 -- 9- 16 43 404 N. 75 55 W.' . 44 46 524 10 75 74 25 55 6 49; 47 "4 75 52* o -> 14. 7 48 18 N. 58 0 E.1 48 37 57 40 1 8 4t 48 56 58 0 J E.' 1 D -15. 6 42 44 18 45 N. 65 65 45 40 > 7 354 45 26 64 35 1 V - 18. 6 44 5 N. 66 0 E.' h 45 *3 66 024 7 34 t 46 404 66 25 > Observations for the Dip of the Needle. Face of the Instrument. 177 4- East. O " West. O " 0 August 7. 44 25 45 05 43 05 46 30 Changed the Poles. 42 45 45 5° 44 0 46 30 Changed the Poles. 44 45 46 3° 44 35 44 20 44 3° 45 25 "oe I •vl 44 40 45 50 45 0 43 10 Changed the Poles. 46 05 44 3° 44 15 43 35 44 55 43 °5 Changed the Poles. 45 25 45 35 46 10 46 40 Changed the Poles. 45 45 45 10 46 45 45 0 45 l 5 45 5° Mean 45 02^ Dip of the Needle's S. end.
ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS. 99 Observations at the Island of Tanna, one of the New Hebrides, Continued. Lunar Observations for the Longitude. - 774 -' Time by the Watch K. Apparent Time. Zenith Distance of the B's U. L. Distance of the r's L. from 0 or #. Error of the Quadrant. Longitude East. Remarks, H ' H ' " O Q / / " 0 v Aug. 15. 14 40 22§ 46 22 j 92 6 " 4 i 5 8 46 o| 6f O and v's Limbs. 43 SOL 45 4 2 t 6i Barometer 29,97. 44 '44 45 21 64 !> + i 16 170 12 0 Thermometer 814. 47 54f 44 39 84 Dollond's Quadrant. 49 05 44 224 9 5° 31 44 21 10 _I 53 9 43 29I 92 it 1 O and j . 54 41 43 7 i n4i 55 46 42 52 n4 vo 42 37 Barometer 29,97. 56 45 42 384 12 r + I 58 4 Thermometer 81-f. 58 8 42 194 124 Ramfden's Quad. 18 59 32 4 i 594 13* 32 39 36 64' D and Spica. 35 2 84 35 5 " 8 ' + 1 20 169 35 38 barometer 30,08. 3 8 39 94 Thermometer 8 1. 18 39 4i 9 ^ Cloudy. 47 52 63 28 ] ■ J> and " Aquilae. 48 50 45 57 2641 + 20 169 40 37 Jarometer 30,08. Thermometer 81. 52 37 62 26jJ Very cloudy. 8 - - 7 - l 5 21 26 6z 119 io41 24 3 i 61 33 i 124 25 9 61 i"4 124 26 20 61 24 134 0 and r. 27 28 18 52 60 60 451 28 471 169 53 -5 3 arometer 30,07. Thermometer 79s. 29 52 i 60 - 3 i 15 j iamsden's Quad. 3 ° 56 60 of 154 3 1 45 59 484 16 32 52 59 33 l 16; J 169 48 494 Mean of all.
IOO ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS ' 774 - Appa rent Time. Height of the Tide. H ' F. 1 . b August 6. 4 48 22 If] 23 42 n- G -- 7 - I IC 5 47 3 0 L -' 7 * 20 45 23 48 if-18. 0 17 2 55 3 01 5 37 Observations made at the Island of Tanna, one of the New Hebrides. Observations on the Tides. Apparent Time. Height of the Tide. Remarks. H ' F. 1 . 5 5 " Water returned to the first mark. 21 JO Low water by estimation. 2 10 The water at a mark. 2 30 The water at a second mark. 3 5 °! 3 5 High water by equal altitudes. 5 '5 Water returned to the latter mark. 5 2 5 Water returned to the first mark. Remarks. Time of high water, estimated. The water at a mark. Low water, by equal altitudes. The water returned to the mark. High water by estimation. Low water by estimation. The water at a mark. The water at another mark. High water, by equal altitudes. Water returned to the latter mark, • 774 - If August 18 ? - 19 ,L V* The high and low waters were marked on a post, and the distance between these marks measured with a two feet rule. Computations of the going of Mr. Kendall's Watch. 1774- /i / f r August y - 15. - 19. Time of apparent Noon by the Watch. r 1 56 48,2 11 57 08,16 ii 57 '3>4 2 (i 57 23,29 11 57 27,58 ii 57 31,72 Mean Time of apparent Noon. Watch too flow for mean Time. Watch gains between the Observations. Watch gains each Day. H ' " H ' " 24 5 23,23 4 5 '-64 4 42,32 4 10,82 3 47>-4 3 21,21 11 ? iV!! ! ° s'-" C y 0 41,37 6 47*53 0 " a, 6 19,56° 27,97 y 5 >0 30,07 5 49 > 49 j J ' 12,89 14,58 * 3.79 13,98 1 5>°3 Mean , 4'°54 If the gain between the first and last Observation be taken, and divided by the num ber of days elapsed, the daily gain of the Watch on mean time will be 13^,795 : but if a mean of all the comparisons which can be formed out of the six day's Observations be taken, the daily gain on mean time will be 1 3 ^ 938 . Observations for the Latitude of the Place. l 77 4 - 0 e s n ? D t Aug. 7 9 10 11 12 15 16' Double Altitude of the ©'s L. L. 107 24 108 31 109 7 109 41 no 17 113 II 113 48 o 30 10 52 8 : o 45 Dollond's Quadrant. Ditto. Ramsden's ditto. Ditto. Dollond's ditto. D no. Ramsden's ditto. Mean Latitude Latitude South. 19 32 18 x 9 32 33 19 32 7 19 32 25 19 32 41 19 32 29 19 32 25! 19 32 25I South.
ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS ror Observations made on the Island Pudyoua, on the Coast of New Caledonia. 1774. Equal Altitudes. Times by the Watch K. Zenith Distance. Altitude of the 0 'sL.L on the Meridian. Time of apparent Noon by the Watch. Remarks, &c. Lower Wire. Middle Wire. Upper Wire. ' H ' " 0 ' O ' H ' " D Sept. 5. * - 6. 2 3 HZ 25 48 10 26 9 2 5 19I 27 54 *5 5 43 8 21 27 26 30 01 6 I 2 f ■49 4 C ;49 40 62 59^ 12 16 41,9 0 'SU. Llr, , O's L. l. S Easte Height of the eye 10 feet. Observations of the Solar Eclipse. At 13 h. 11' 47" by the Watch, I had a short light of the Sun between the clouds, and saw that the Eclipse had begun : It remained cloudy until a little before two o'clock, when it cleared up, and I took the following measurements with my Hadley's Sextant, which I think may be advantageously made use of on these occasions. ' 774 . S Sept. 6. Time by the Watch K. Apparent Time. Distar the C After o> ice of ufps. Before 0. Distance &c. reduced. ' 774 - Time by the Watch K. Apparent Time. Distal theC lAfter 0. ice of 'ufps. Before 0. H ' H ' " ' H ti 14 1C> 28 1 53 45 i - 7 t 26 54 $ dept. 6 . 14 49 54 2 33 1 1 i 2 4 ? 13 3 1 z 56 48- 2 7 i 2 7 9 53 7 2 Z 6 - 4 s 24 i; 57 I 59 * 4 * 26J 26 3 6 54 30 Z 37 47 i 2 4 t 17 19 2 0 36s z6j 2 7 6 >5 I 1 53 2 55 ioi 23? 22 5 ° 2 6 7 f 26 51 12 5 ° 2 56 7 l 22^ z 3 45 2 7 zf 1 26 26 21 13 29 2 56 461 2Z| 24 33 2 7 50L 26 26 21 -4 9 2 5 726^ 22 25 4 > 2 8 587 26-;- 2 5 54 >4 39 2 57 5 6 i --I 26 29 2 9 4 6 f 26J 2 5 54 IS 3 i 2 58 48* 2 l| 27 -5 2 10 32* 261 2V 9 3 2 ? Z-s 28 22 2 11 39 l 26 2 5 39 32 i 3 Z2 ot 20 39 20 9 20 51 20 6
102 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS. Observations made on the Island of Pudyoua, on the Coast of New Caledonia, Continued. Observations of the Solar Eclipse. 1 774 * $ Sept. 6 , Time by the Watch K. Apparent Time. Lu Pa After 0 rid rt. Before O Parts, &c. reduced. H ' " H.' iz 29 01 3 12 00 26s 26 51 30 13 3 >3 3°1 274 27 36 30 50 3 14 7 i z8i 27 54 3 i 42 3 *4 S 9 i 28; 27 54 32 34 3 -5 5 >-l 29 28 40 33 9 3 16 z6i 2 9 i 28 54 33 5 * 3 *7 09 ? -8^ 28 36 34 27 3 i? 44 * E 28 51 35 3 3 lS 20' 29 29 21 - 774 - Time by the Watch K. Apparent Time. After the Eclipse. i W. W. 15 45 32 . 3 28 4 pf 1 Mr. Clerke. 45 35 5 z i £ Capt. Cook. 45 36 53 + ) 0's Dia- meter. Reduc- After Before ed. O O ' ' ''' ' Th 3'! 32 0' 32 3 H 3152! iH Z's 3' 52 s Z2i Z's 32 O 32f 34 3' 52 s End of the Eclipse. As the cusps approach each other the fastest towards the end of the Eclipse, it would certainly have been best to continue measuring their distance to the end, if it could have been done with exactness} but I found that when they began to grow very obtuse, it was not easy to determine their coincidence, at least with so small a magnifying power as is generally used with Hadley's quadrant: If a micrometer on the fame principles with Hadley's quadrant was applied to a proper telescope, which I think might be done with some advantage, this defect might probably vanilh; as things are, I think it would be best always to measure the parts uneclipscd. Of the Tides. The distance which we lay from the shore, and the difficulty of getting thither, would not permit me to make a regular series of Observations on the Tides; but I found by equal altitudes of the water, that it was low water at the island where I observed the eclipse at 18' past noon of the 6th ; and, as near as I could estimate, it was high water on the shore opposite the ship, at half past six o'clock the next morning. At 58'past noon on the 7th it was low water; but I could determine nothing with respect to the quantity it had ebbed, as the natives would not suffer any mark to stand on the shore, and there was no fixed object by which it could be done. The next morning I got the time of high water very accurately, by means of equal altitudes, at 19 h. 29% and found that it had flowed three feet and near an inch from yesterday's low water mark. At five or ten minutes past two o'clock on the 8th, it was low water, and I found that it had ebbed out from this morning's high water mark three feet and an inch nearly. These were all the remarks of this fort which I was able to make here.
astronomical observations, 10 Observations made on Board the Ship, at Anchor. Observations of Meridian Altitudes for the Latitude. 2774. Meridian Altitude of the o's L. L. Latitude. Quadrant. O ' 0 ' 9 Sept. 7. 63 234 20 16 40 Ramfden. if - 8. 63 454 20 16 52 Doliond. ? - 9. 64 844 20 16 48 Ramfden. H - 10. 64 294 20 18 20 Ramfden. O - 11. 64 524 20 18 0 Ramfden. 64 524 20 18 30 Doliond. V - 12. 65 144 20 18 45 Doliond. 65 154 20 18 30 Ramfden. L atitude 20 17 48 South. * O * The great difference between the latitudes deduced from the three first Observations, as well as that made on the little island, on $ the 6th, and those deduced from the five last Observations, did not escape my notice at the time, nor did they pass without the strictest examination, as well as care, in the four last, so that I am certain no mistake has happened in them; and that no mistake has been committed in the former may reasonably be concluded, as they agreed exceeding near with those taken by Mr. Clerke and others on the little island. N. B. The small island, where I observed the Eclipse, bore $. 88 E. by compass, about a mile distant •, that is, about S. 79 0 E. true: Qf course the difference of latitude is about 11", whence the latitude of the island will be 20 0 17' 59" S. Observations for the Longitude by the Watch K. * 774 . j?-10. 11 Time by the Watch K. H 15 9 7 7 7 16 16 1 7 49 IZ 9 54 5 12 8 24 15 21 7 •5 38 5 44 t 244 4 4 i * 4 i 39 2j 32 2l4 24 I 4 i Apparent Time. H 3 21 18 18 19 3 3 20 3 *9 2 0 Zo,7 32 45 * 56 36 5 i 33 t 37 54 49 22,7 55 50 8 16 5 10 21 52 49 l 2 Altitude of the G's L. L. 37 45 54 44 59 44 11 010 9 58 52 20 43 41 28 9 10 26 42 40 27 44 23 38 1 9 17 22 74 41 37 I 3 f Barometer. 30,09 30,08 30,04 30,08 30,09 30,06 30,06 30,21 30,08 30,14 30,08 Thermometers. A. 77 73 i 73 i 73 i 73 i 76 76 734 74 T 74 76s B. 754 72s 7"4 744 7 1 75 75 72 724 79 Mean of all Longitude by the Watch. i6 3 55 224 i6 3 56 37 s 163 58 o 163 55 45 163 56 45 163 57 o 163 58 l6 3 56 163 56 37 163 55 524 163 57 15 o 74 163 56 401 2 o o *~h o cr 10 6 6 6 6 8 6 10 6 6 8 East. Remarks. Cloudy. Dist. Dist. Dist. E e
104 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS. Observations made on Board the Ship, at Anchor. Observations for the Variation of the Compass. r 774 - Altitude of the g *s L. L. Azimuth of the g' s Center. Variation East. cr Z ff 1 ? 4 22J 30,06 75 164 15I t 0 and ]), a mean of 8 { Observations. l6 12 z\ 3 55 5° 26 42^ L. L* 75 31 L. L. 50 6 22 30,06 75 -64 13? 5 0 and J, a mean of 6 J Observations. Q - n. •9 4 54 6 48 43 19 6 tr. 52 32 tr. 32 48 28} 30,18 73 164 31s t ]) and Spica, a mean of J 8 Observations, -9 25 581 7 9 57 t 5 6 2 7 t " 47 44+ tr. 66 23 17s 3°, , 8 73 164 56s C I> and " Aquiiae, a mean I of 6 Observations, D - 12. 1 5 5 -4 2 49 12 41 37; L. L. 75 56 50 30,08 79 164 19s y 0 and D, a mean of 8 I Observations. 15 1.3 44 2- 57 42 39 47 + L - L - 75 59 3 6 + 30,08 79 164 22s s 0 and S , a mean of 8 f Observations. >9 9 34 i 5 53 33 54 4 -Z S 4 34 tr. 54 16 1o 4 : 30,10 73; i65 40s J Dand a Aquilae, a mean £ of 8 Obf, Cloudy. As it frequently happened, that the altitude of one or both of the objects could not be observed for the land, I was obliged to compute them from the apparent time, deduced from the Watch ; and such are here marked tr. The numbers put down are the true altitude of the center. The mean of the above Observations give 164° 42' 6"% for the Longitude of the ship. Twenty Observations taken before we arrived, and reduced hither by the Watch, give 164° 45' 54"! ; and twenty taken after leaving the place, gave 164° 32' 32" : the mean of these three is 164 ° 40' 1 1" E., the Longitude of the ship at anchor. The bearing and distance of the little island where I observed the eclipse, gives 1'3" for the difference of Longitude between the ship and island, and of course the Longitude of the latter will be 164° 41' 14" E.: but the Watch gave only 27"! difference of Longitude ; and therefore if this be taken, its Longitude will be no more than 164° 4 o 38"! E. I should prefer the former._
ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS 105 Observations made at Queen Charlotte's Sound, in New Zealand. >774- ? Oct. 21. 22 . © 23. 24. -5 - 26. Of O 28, 30, 31 Equal Altitudes. Times by the Clock B. Lower Wire. 19 21 22 14s 33 °6 36 41 1 42 12 395 -5 3 6 6 48s 9 49f 5 2 1 55 11 46 41 49 5' 32 04 3 5 03s 38 i8£ 41 i6~ 7 47 10 45 39 28 42 25 5 2 02 : 54 58 * 23s 11 2l| 20 58 23 53z : 31 5 2 i 34 47f 47 16 3 ° 345 43 -5 45 5 5 27s ;8 22 7 58 10 54 28 42I 3 1 38s 41 " 6 5 Middle Wire. H ' 9 -I 4°t 24 36: ll 35 59f 39 44- 15 55 7i 58 50 18 10 i8f 13 10 9 12 14I 10 54 34 57 46 >5t >5 16 44 47 6| 19 29 39 32 4° I 40 42 43 385 18 8 23 9 4i 495 44 45; 9 54 23s 57 >95 18 6 8 18 18 59 37 21 34 34 13 37 9 46 4 49 37 18 28 13: 18 31 8: 18 40 40s 43 3 6 5 9 57 475 10 o 42 : 10 io 19 13 15 t8 26 22 29 l8 18 41 50: Upper Wire. 24 1 26 56 38 545 42 345 52 us 55 57 7 58 10 5s " 39 '4 38f 57 7 O 2of [■64 40 O • 41 20 O 44 46 27 16 30 43 >7 3 4-6 59 44 9 47 45 56 44 59 4i 6 39 16 19: 19 13 : 36 32 39 27 49 1 5i 575 38 24: Zenith Distance. 41 20 o I.64 40 o • 56 20 O ^48 20 O >48 20 O ,. 56 20 O 62 OO 41 o 3 12 >5 >7 7 2J 39^ 35 24 -4 26 59 36 345 39 29: 62 00 62 40 o 60 20 o 60 20 o 62 40 o J 65 00 | 62 40 o I ^62 40 o I 65 00 I 62 00 I 59 40 o I [59 40 o | 62 00 Azimuth of 0's center from the North at the times of equal Altitudes, Lower Wire. 6 9 o 68 25 67 o 66 20 Varia. 94 45 95 -5 97 3° 97 5° 72 5 7' 45 69 45 Varia. 97 5° 99 35 too 20 70 55 70 15 68 15 68 o Varia. 96 45 97 IS 99 o Middle Wire. 68 25 67 55 66 30 66 o 14 20 94 25 94 40 96 50 97 3° 71 50 71 25 69 50 69 25 >3 59i 97 15 97 45 99 20 99 45 70 20 70 05 68 5 67 50 14 ,84 96 o S 6 55 99 5 Upfer Wire. 68 o 67 45 66 0 East. 94 35 96 25 96 55 71 30 71 05 69 25 69 o East. : 96 55 99 10 99 3° 70 05 69 45 68 o 67 15 East. 95 40 96 5 98 30 98 45 Time of apparent Noon by the Clock. H >3 47 14-28 -3 50 45,29 13 54 >9">> 14 28,25 Phenomena and Remarks, 14 8 42,29 14 >9 36,89 O'sU. 0'sL. O'sU. O'sL. ®'s L. O'sU. O's L. O'sU. O's U. O's L. O's U. O's L. O's L. O'sU. O's L. O's U. ©'" u. O's L. 0*5 L. O'sU. O'sU. O's D. O'sU. ©'* L. O's L. O's u. O.S L. o's u. O's U, O's L. O's U. O's L. O's L. O's u. O's L. O's U. O's U. O's L. O's U. O 's L. O's L. O's u. O's L. O'sU. L.1 > Easterly. L.) L. 1 L. L. L. L. L.. L. L.j Westerly. Easterly. L.-l > Westerly, L.\ | Easterly. ] Very cloudy Westerly. > Easterly. L. L. L. L. L. L.J L. L. L. L. L. st L. L. L. Westerly. Easterly. L. L. L. LJ L. L. L. L.J ■ Westerly. Easterly. L. ^ Westerly. 1
io6 - ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS Observations made at Queen Charlotte's Sound, Continued. 1774 - £ Nov. 2 Equal Altitudes. Times by the Clock B. Zenith Azimuth ot 0 s centei from the North, at the times of equal Altitudes. Time of apparent Noon Lower. Middle Upper - Lower Mladic U pper by the Clock. Wire. Wire. Wine. Wire. Wire. Wire. H 0 ✓ " O ' 0 H " 6 45 1 10 9 £) 1 1 24: •6l 20 0 7 > 35 71 20 70 S o 9 4 °5 12 O >4 20 ' 71 20 71 0 >9 13 10 21 34 23 535 ■59 69 40 69 25 69 20 22 IO 24 305 26 s> : O 0 69 20 69 20 69 05 Varia. >4 >5 East. >4 O ca '-a 0 39 18 37 5 34 45 ' 59 " st 97 45 97 25 97 0 42 -3 40 2* 37 43 98 10 97 5 ° 97 3 ° s> 56 18 49 47 16* ' 6l 20 0 IOO 25 99 3 ° 99 10 54 53 52 32 5 ° >35 100 35 100 25 99 35 46 575 10 49 20 5 > 405 •54 20 0 65 0 6 4 45 64 15 49 55 s 52 18 54 395 . 64 45 64 lo 63 35 34 > 8,45 Varia. 14 48^ East. >4 *9 O 18 16 40 >4 18 ■ 54 20 0 94 30 93 3 ° 93 >5 21 58 s >9 37 >7 17 94 45 94 35 93 35 9 56 59 39 335 58 I 57 f 5 'tJ .64 4O O 69 35 75 0 74 Zo 74 35 74 >5 28 7 l 10 30 29 32 48 [58 20 0 6g 15 69 05 3 1 45 33 255 35 45 69 15 69 0 68 30 Z8 0,49 Varia. >4 2 4 J East. >4 43 48 >75 >35 18 42 45 56s 53 : 40 43 38 34 b 8 20 0 98 0 98 25 97 35 98 05 97 >0 97 4 ° 19 16 >9 46 >4 >7 Z2t 27 ► 64 40 0 >°3 35 103 50 u-> O B 2* Phenomena and Remarks. 0'sU. L. "| s Lj. L" I " " , 0's U.L. ^Easterly. 0's L.L.J > Westerly. W's L. L. ©'s U. L. ©'" -L. L. ©'s U. L. |'sL.L.'} EaflerI ^ O's L. L ©'s U. L ©'" U. L, © 0 © * ^ Westerly. &'" U. L. ■ I's u! l.' [ EaslerI y- ^ S Li Li m ■I ©'* L. L ©'s U. L. , ... . , ©*" L. L. ^^sterly. ©'s U. L. J *** The Observatory stood exactly in the place where it did last year, and where I observed the equal altitudes in May and June, 1773- The Clock also was fixed up in the usual manner, by means of the iron block and frame : but I had the mortification to find it so much injured by the dampness of the place it had Iain in, and the parts, particularly the pendulum, so covered with rust, that it would not go without frelh oil, and an additional weight for the first day or two after it was set up.
astronomical observations *07 Observations made at Queen Charlotte's Sound, Continued. Computations of the Clock's Rate of going. 1774- h Oct. 22. O -- 23. " !! " 1 24. S ? 5 - 26 - 28 - 3 1 O Nov. 3 ? -- 4 * - 5 Time of apparent Noon by the Clock. H 13 47 t4,28 1 3 5 ° 45>29 rz 54 -9," 14 1 28,25 14 8 42,29 14 19 36 ,89 14 3° 37,lo 14 34 18,45 14 3 8 0,49 Syderial Time of apparent Noon. H 13 46 33,90 13 50 21,80 13 54 10,70 14 1 50,38 14 9 33,10 14 21 13,10 i4 33 o,Z7 14 36 S7.7 8 14 40 56,01 Clock too fast for Syderial Time. Clock loscslClock loses o 40,38 o 23,49 0 08,41 Clock flow. o 22,13 50,81 36,21 23,27 39,33 55,5 2 between the Observations. each Day on Syderial Time. 16,89 X5,08 30,54 28,68 45,40 47,06 16,06 16,19 Mean 16,89 15,08 15,27 14,34 15,13 15,69 16,06 16,19 15,5 8 If the gain between the first and last Observation be taken, the Clock's gain on Syderial Time will be 15",42 each day. The pendulum vibrated i° 37'! each way from the perpendicular the whole time. Observations of Meridian Altitudes of the Sun and Stars for the Latitude. 1774. Zenith Interior Arch. Distances. Exterior Arch. Exterior Arch reduced. Barom. 1*4 In Tent. E Out. 0 S5 . Phenomena Remarks. O > " G. S. V. +" 0 8 Oct. 26. 28 56 45 3° 3 17 10 28 57 19 29,67 70-V 71 O S Li> Li, r - 28. 27 43 53 29 2 11 8 27 44 20f 29,67 67 68 O's U. L. D -3 1 * 27 16 52 29 0 -3 21 27 17 19 29,60 65 67 O's L. L. 10 17 7 10 3 29 0 IO 17 26 29,61 55 5 °t Fomalhaut. 55 4 25 5 8 3 0 15 55 4 56 29,61 55 5 °t * Pegasi. 68 54 28 73 2 1 5 68 54 54 29,62 53f 50 " Andromedae. 17 17 15 18 1 25 8 17 17 4i 29,62 521 49§ Achernar. F Nov. 1. 26 24 22 28 0 21 20 26 24 33s 29,70 67 66 O's U. L. s - 2. 26 37 55 28 1 21 6 26 38 iyi 29,38 67! 65I O's L. L. 6 56 40 7 1 21 21 6 57 23 29,40 5'i 451 " Gruis. F f
io8 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS Observations at Queen Charlotte's Sound, Continued. Observations of meridian Altitudes of the Sun and Stars for the Latitude. 1774. Zenith Interior Arch. Distances. Exterior A .rch. Exterior Arch reduced. Barom. ►J '1U3X sr 0 ^5 nom. O c r * Phenomena and Remarks. 0 G. s. V. "+ O s Nov. 2. 6 56 53 7 1 22 4 6 57 33 29,40 5 °a 44 1 |3 Gruis. 10 17 7 10 3 28 23 10 17 22f 29,41 50 43 Fomalhaut. 55 4 6 58 3 0 O 55 4 41 29,41 50 43 " Pegasi. 68 54 3 73 2 0 24 68 54 22-| 29,42 48 i 43 Si Andromedae. l 7 16 3 ° 18 1 23 23 17 16 40 29,42 47 434 Achernar. n ■ - ■ 3 . 6 56 40 7 1 21 IO 6 57 2£ 29,49 55 + 53 x Gruis. 20 15 52 21 2 l6 6 20 16 3° 29,49 55 ? 53 " AnserisAmericani. 6 5 6 55 7 1 22 10 6 57 39 29,49 5 i 4 484 (3 Gruis. 10 16 40 10 3 28 12 10 17 us 29,49 5*4 487 Fomalhaut. 55 4 8 58 3 O 4 55 4 45 29,49 5 i 4 484 a Pegasi. 68 54 2Z 73 2 O 22 68 54 44 s 29,50 50 47 § " Andromedae. 17 16 3 2 18 1 24 0 17 1 7 29,54 5 * 5 ° Achernar. s T J 4 - 6 56 58 7 1 22 13 6 57 29 29,52 59 56 (3 Gruis. 10 17 10 10 3 29 10 10 i 7 36 29,52 57 \ 53i Fomalhaut. 55 4 35 58 3 I 0 55 5 71 29,52 57 l 53 f * Pegasi. h - 5 - 25 9 20 26 3 11 r3 25 9 44 29,75 70 731 O 's U. L. For the Error of the Line of Collimation of the Quadrant. 1774- Zenith distance of the upper hole: the quadrant direct. Zenith distance of the lower hole : the quadrant inverted. These Observations give four comparisons for each arch of the Quadrant; viz. 4- 6" 1 Interior Arch. Exterior Arch. interior Arch. Exterior A .rch. 0 ' •' G. 8. V. +" 0 ' " G. S: V. J ~ • 89 13 25 95 0 23 0 90 45 55 96 3 8 20 ! l 4. and -o''4 for the interior, 13 35 23 *4 45 25 8 7 or90 arch; and + i"f, ■- 13 40 23 7 45 25 8 9 2 8"4, -6"f and -21" 13 50 23 24 45 45 8 20 for the exterior, or 96 iZ 45 23 13 45 3° 8 7 arch : the mean of the 13 5° 23 12 45 35 8 IO former is 7"§ to be added, 13 37 23 20 46 35 10 20 and of the latter 13"^ to 13 50 24 14 46 23 IO 0 be subtracted. 14 0 23 24 46 30 IO 6 13 55 24 5 46 05 IO 0 14 05 23 20 46 05 9 20
ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS. 109 Observations at Queen Charlotte's Sounds Continued. Computations for the Latitude of the Place. Latituc Interior Arch. e by the 1 Exterior | Declination. Arch. J Q ' " 0 ' " q r By Observations of the Sun. 41 5 41 5 5 8 ' 41 6 n| 41 5 29 4- 5 5-s 4- 5 44l 4- 5 59s 4- § 4I 4- 6 171 4- 5 -9l 4.1 5 58 4- 5 47s 12 24 37 , s. -3 5 23 -4 4 59 14 24 25 -4 43 36I -5 39 44s Means. 4- 5 4> 5 54s By Observations of Fomalhaut. 41 6 03s 41 6 03! 4- 5 36! 41 6 o6§ 41 6 01 4i 5 57 s 4- 5 47 41611 ' 30 48 40 8. Means. 4- 5 57l 41 3 59 By Obtervations of a. An'dromedae. 41 6 6J 4 1 5 43 41 6 2 41 6 11 4-6; 41 6 2 . 27 50 56s N. Means. 4i 5 57 41 6 6 By Observations of " Pegaii. 41 5 5 1 41 5 33 4> 5 34 4160 41 6 1 • 4 - 5 47 4 1 5 5 ° 4- 6 11 ■ 14 0 03 N. Means. 4- 5 44* 4- 5 57? -774- 8 Oct. '26. ? -28. v -31. . 8 Nov. 2. It - z. 3> Oct. 31. 8 Nov. 2. U - 3- ? - 4- 1 774* 8 Nov. It - 8 Nov. U - ¥ - U Nov. 3, 3) Oct. 31. 8 Nov. 2. n - 3. Latitude by the Interior I Exterior Arch. I Afcb. Declination, Q 0 ' " " ' " ! By Observations of a. Gruis. 4- 4- 5 3 2 >4- 5 10 i 5 32 |4i 5 21 48 2 261 8. 41 5 32 41 5 1 5i | Means. ( By Observations of A Gruis. 41 4- 41 d -3s 6 n| 6 8i 4- 5 55 4- 5 39 4- 5 46 .48 3 21 8. 41 6 ii| 41 5 46^ Means. By an Observation of m Anseris Americani. 41 6 1 2 41 5 55 61 32 32I 8. By Obtervations of Achernar, 4- 41 41 5 39 6 24s 6 22 4- 5 43 4-613 , 4- 6 155 . .58 23 19^ S. 4 i 6 81 41 6 4 Means. 4' 4- 6 01 5 5 2 l 4- 5 45? 41 5 59? Mean of the southern stars. Mean of the northern stars. 4* 5 57 41 5 5 2 4 Mean of both. '41 5 54! Latitude South. (Lunar Observations for the Longitude. 1774. © Oct. 23 F - 2Z' Time by the Clock. H Apparent Time. H ' 4 33 49 14 40 55 8 41 26 43 21 44 4° 46 2 47 14 48 21 8 52 44 33 49 53 2 55 59 57 4 5 8 34 i18 44 30 .18 54 49; True Altit. of G's Center. Zenith Distance of 3) 's U. L. Distance of the © and D's Limbs. Error of the Quadrant. I Barometer. 16 24} l8 21 _ l_ It's first satellite immerged ata sensible distance from the Planet. Mag. power 150 65 25! I0 9 39i 26! 39! 33i 39 4° 3 8 ! 1 4 6 ? 3 8 52L 38 00 17I109 42 2 3l 4>1 3- 4'i v 3 41 f 4 2 i 4®s I SU 4°iJ Longitude. > + 3 29 -1 54 29,68 29,68 6o£ 60' -74 7 3° 174 22 50 >74 33 55 Remarks. Dollond's Quadrant. Ramfden's Quadrant.
IIO ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS. Observations at Queen Charlotte's Sound, Continued. Lunar Observations for the Longitude. ' 774 - H ' " 1 If. Oct. 27. 8 46 IO 47 20 ■f 8 55 7°' -z S> 24 53 3 8 55 2 5 -- 57 3 58 33 59 5> 9 I 35 3 4 0-zo. IO z 4 59 26 45 -8 18 29 35 30 45 3.2 6. IO 34 ?9 35 59 37 9 38 4> 39 56 4i 0 11 56 45 58 l6 59 53 12 O 43 12 2 48 3 39 4 33 5 54 r - zi. IO >4 4* ID -9 18 4> 20 O 21 54 24 zi IO 27 5 3° 7 3> 4> 33 0 34 24 36 Z7 Time by the - Clock. Apparent Time, True Altit. of 0's Center. H ' " Q ' >3 4 > 16 i8i '18 51 2ii 18 08 ►20 9 43s - 33 284 O CO 0 N -if™ 35 8| ■2i 29 z8Z T 49 >57 ?2i 44 57 1 1 ;o 74 ^>9 56 4 °i 1 J 1 I 3 > > 4 i 1 >20 9 28 . 33 37 f Zenith Distance of 5's U. L. 57 3il 34 35s 3 6 f 37* 39* 57 43* 45 47 49 51 * 54 4 8 43* 4° 3 Sj 33* 3 i 28' 48 24 2 i 4 -9* *7* 16 Hi 49 28 I 36 * 40 43 49 5° 54 * li 3 50 49 48 4 8i 34-i - 7 s 18 3i 47 494 3H -5* i8| 12 01 Distance of the ~ 0 and i's ... Limbs. Error of the Quadrant. 87 5-44 5>7 I & s°i 49IJ 8 7 545 54 53t v 537 ^ SH 5? • 53 '9 >■ + 3 Z3 •i 4-4 I8| >7i 1 +3 ' 74 j '7 J 3- 53 22 i'l 22 | 2 Ix ! 21 20 J 204 y -2 26 * +3 3- 52 49 484 +"{ 48- 52 53 534 k z 524 52 ?J 4 I 22|1 22 211 1 21 20 20 25 23-1 22 4 I - 2 22 ' 2lj- 21 41 + > + 3 I J ?,il 22 -64 I 5 i Barometer, 29,72 29,72 29,58 29,58 29,64 29,64 29.68 29.68 H re* 3 o 3 2 cv 59 59 67 67 7 ° 70 65 65 Longitude. >74 6 304 >74 33 5 2 i >74 3i 15 >74 4i IS >74 20 55 174 28 15 >74 4> 74 >74 44 37l Remarks. Dollohd's Quadrant. Ramfden's Quadrant. Dollond's Quadrant. Ramfden's Quadrant. DoIIond'* Quadrant. Ramfden's Quadrant, Dollond's Quadrant. Ramfden's Quadrant.
ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS 11 1 Observations at Queen Charlotte's Sound, Continued Lunar Observations for the Longitude, Zenith Error of Apparent Time. Longitude. Barometer, of the Remarks. Clock, drant. Center, Limbs. ■3 5 - 59 1 F Nov. i. 56 zz ( 58 Z7 J Ramfden's Quadrant, >- 2 45 7 54 J The following Observations were made on board the Ship; the Place of the Observatory bearing 8. by W. ~ W. by Compass, about Half a Mile Distant. Distance of the 0 and Time by the Watch tude of of the Apparent Time. Latitude. tude of Barometer. Limbs. Center. -2 44 tude of Center, Dollond's Quadrant. Cloudy. -74 35 15 Dolktad's Quadrant. Ramfden's Quadrant. Very cloudy. 5 *5 57 -73 35 45
I 12 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS. Observations at Queen Charlotte's Sound, Continued. Observations for the Dip of the Magnetic Needle. 1774. Face of strun East. the In- nent. West. 1774 . Face of strun East. the In- aent. West. 0 ' O ✓ O ' 774 - Time of Ap- parent Noon by the Clock. Time by the Clock when the Watch was compared. Time from Noon by the Clock. Clock gains on Watch Time from Noon by the Watch. Time by the Watch when compared. Time of Apparent Noon by theWatch. Mean Time of Apparent Noon. Watch too flow for MeanTime. H - " H ' " ✓ ' H ' " H - " H ' H ' " tj Oct. 22. 13 47 14,26 13 5 1 15 4 0.72 5,58 4 0,14 II 39 O 11 34 59,86 23 44 38,72 12 9 38,86 0- rz- 13 50 45.27 14 iz 46I 23 1,21 3.33 22 57,88 11 58 0 11 3; 2,12 23 44 30,30 9 28,18 5 -24. 13 54 19,11 >4 5 13 ^ 10 54,39 057 to 52,82 II 46 c 11 35 7,18 23 44 22,59 9 -5 4 ' § - 26 14 or 28,25 >4 8 9! 6 41,25 0,96 6 40,29 I I 42 O 11 35 19,71 23 44 09,25 8 49.54 ? -28. 14 08 42,29 14 16 7i 7 25,2, 1,07 7 24,14 11 43 0 11 35 35,86 23 43 58,92 8 23.06 5 - 3 >7 21 57.44 11 58 0 11 36 2,56 23 43 49,42 7 46,86 A N';v. z. 14 3 ° 37 " IC 14 4O O 9 22,90 1 *3 5 9 zi ,55 11 46 0 11 36 38.45 2 3 43 47 . 10 7 8 > 6 5 $ - 4 14 Z4 18.45 H 33 l6 i 0 52,20 0,13 O 52>07 11360 n 36 52,07 23 43 47 . 9 2 6 55.85 b - 5 - 14 38 co,49 '4 3 8 54 Q 53 . 5 ' 0,13 0 53 - 3 8 11 38 0 11 37 06,62 UZ 43 49,;6 6 42,94 By taking a mean of all the comparisons that can be formed oat of these, come out 12", 576. The mean gain is Watch gains on Mean Time each Day, 10,68 '2,77 12.93 13,24 12,07 12,74 12,80 12,gi 12,525 the Watch's gain, each day, on mean time will
ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS Ir 3 Observations made at Christmas Sound, in Terra del Fuego. *774* % Dec. 22 . 2Z 24 , 25 . 26 . Equal Altitudes. Times by the Clock B. Lower Wire. 23 14 5 441 9 39 46 49 5i 37 S 2 41 s *5 14 21 21 2Z -4 52 oif 5 6 34 23 22 27 16 43 3°t 47 23 I 57 42 : 1 3<>f *4 13 I 18 04 50 7 s 54 8 r 4 35 18 43 - Middle Wire. H ' '3* l3 42 51 14 8 52 s 14- 21- 22 - 22 39 34 22 55 39 23 - iz 24 26 28 19 13- Upper Wire. 45 55\ 14 io 49 s 22 37 44 22 --- 23 20 17 24 9 52 34 9 5i| 38 34l Zenith Distance. Time of apparent Noon by the Clock. 0 ^ / H ' £ 61 00 O O ^r co cr> 6 0 to |49 20 O I 18 19 14,14 ^49 20 0 155 o j 58 40 161 o 162 o 157 40 ^ 57 j 62 46 36 49 4°z 50 28 53 32 0 5*f 3 4 n 4 36 7 41 17 16 20 23 21 11 24 17 53 i9f 56 3°i 57 21 0 34 11 18 s 8 7 15 24 s 12 6 : 158 20 156 o (51 O 40 o 18 24 18,83 18 34 22,91 Phenomena and Remarks. O's U. Lo O's L. L. O's U. L. O's L. L. . O's U. L. > O's L. L. O's U. L. > O s L. L.J Easterly: Very cloudy. o's L. O's U. O's L. o's U. ©"'s L. o's U. O's L. o's U. o's U. O's L. O 's U. O 's L. O's U. O's L. L 0 L. L. L. .Westerly: L. 1 Cloudy. l! L.. L.' L. L. L. L. L.j Easterly Cloudy. Westerly: Very O's L. L. O's U. L. o's L. L. O 'L U. L. f cloudy. O's L. L. | O's U.LJ O's U. Lo O's L. L. o's U. L. O's L. L. .Easterly: O's U. L. > Cloudy. O's L. L. O's U.L. O's L. L. O's L. L. 1 Westerly: O's U. L ., weiteny . J Cloudy.
ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS 114 Observations at Christmas Sound, Continued. 1774. E Timt Lower Wire. ,qual Altituc ;s by the Clck B. Upper Wire. Zenith Distance. Time of apparent Noon by the Clock. Phenomena and Remarks. ' /' H ' " " V 0 ' " H ' " ]> Dec. 26. v The from the pe 5 ° 3 8 l 54 37 7 "i 21 23 25 i6§ Clock w rpendicu 22 47 Z2 5 1 27 2Z 4. 7 8 0 23 l8 18 22 12 'as fixed up lar. 48 22 h 6 ° ° ^58 20 O 1 5 • J g© 20 0 19 9s : J in the usual manner, and the pendt o's L. L.'i S's U. L. O's L. L. .Westerly : O 's U. L. | Cloudy. O s L. L" j O's U. L.J lum vibrated 1 each way Meridian Zenith Distances of the Sun and Stars for the Latitude. 1774 . Zenith Interior Arch. Distance. Exterior Arch. Exterior Arch reduced. Q ' G. 8. V. +* Q Dec. 24. 61 27 52 65 2 9 9 61 28 cc t"lM 54 51 27 58 2 2 20 54 5 * 50 53 59 7 57 2 11 12 53 59 2 4 i 53 J 5 57 56 3 9 12 53 16 204 62 4 * 5 66 3 15 23 62 4 i 39 i D - 26. 32 *3 52 34 1 *7 7 32 14 9 61 27 20 65 2 7 24 61 27 5 i 54 50 55 58 2 1 20 54 5 1 24 53 58 27 57 2 10 5 53 S 8 5 1 53 *5 33 56 3 8 9 53 J 5 5 i 62 40 5 l 66 3 14 18 62 41 8i Orionis. F 5 115 34 35 ■ 29,56 49 c ot } rDollond's O S L. L.< Quadrant. i *5 33 27 29,64 43 C Ramsdtn's do. y Orionis. 2 $ 115 29 40 29,55 5 i t £ O's U. L.
ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS. 11 5 Observations at Christmas Sound, Continued. There being no convenient place within view of the Observatory, where I could fix up a proper mark for trying the line of collimation of the quadrant by, I took the following zenith distances of the summit of a distant mountain, and raised the stand of the quadrant just as much as its center was depressed by inverting it. Quadrant direct. Quadrant inverted and raised. Interior Exterior Interior Exterior Arch. Arch. Arch. Arch. U ' G. S. V. +" O ' " G. S. V. +" 8? 5 50 92 3 20 O 9 2 54 22 99 0 13 0 5 30 *9 2 1 54 52 14 0 5 Zo J 9 13 54 22 13 0 5 33 *9 1 7 53 S 2 12 0 5 32 l 9 11 53 52 12 0 5 30 l 9 l 3 54 52 14 6 5 55 19 0 54 40 *3 18 5 25 18 >4 53 52 12 6 5 40 *9 5 54 45 14 0 ■ 5 30 l 9 0 54 35 23 8 5 25 *7 20 54 45 x 3 23 Zenith Distance of the Top of a more distant Hill. 88 40 56 94 2 11 23 91 19 0 97 1 19 22 41 1 12 8 29 0 20 21 4* 3 12 3 18 5° *9 21 4° 43 I 1 21 18 50 20 0 40 4 o I I 25 18 50 20 0 The two first sets make the error of the line of collimation -for the interior, and for the exterior arches of the Quadrant latter sets make them + 6"-§. and - ; and the two -I '\ refpec- tively: The means are and -3 "x r . Computations of the Latitude. Q74- Latitud Interior Arch. e by the Exterior Arch. By Hadley' Quadrant. O ✓ // 0 " v Dec. 26. Ramiden's Quadrant 55 21 39 Dollond's ditto 55 21 6 F -27 Ramfden's ditto 55 21 25 The mean is 55 21 23 By the Sun. v -26. 55 22 17 55 22 27 I 1 <J 27. 55 2l 551 55 21 46 I 55 22 By y Orionis. T} -- 24 - 55 22 4 55 22 34 [ v - 26. 55 21 33 55 2i 57 155 22 2 By -5 Orionis. h -- 24. 55 21 53 55 22 9 \ D -- 26. 55 2 1 22 55 2i 44 1 55 21 47 By £ Orionisl b - 24. 55 22 19 55 22 29 7 S - 26. 55 21 39 55 2l 57 i 55 22 6 By £ Orionis. h --- 24. 55 22 of 55 22 17 7 r - 26. 55 21 37 j55 2l 48 5 55 21 56 By " Orionis. 1 - 24. 55 22 16 55 22 44 ? r - 26. 55 22 4 55 22 13 s s 55 22 *9f Mean of all [ 55 21 57 S H h
116 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS. Observations at Christmas Sound, Continued. Computations of the Clock's Rate of going. 1 7 74 * Time of apparent Noon by the Clock. Syderial Time of apparent Noon. Clock too fast for Syderial Time. Clock gains on Syderial Time. H ' " H ' " ' " S Dec. 23. h -24. 3 -,- 26. 18 19 14,14 24 18,83 34 22,91 18 4 24,7 8 51,4 17 44,55 *4 49,44 15 27,43 16 38,36 0 37-99 0 35-47 0 36,73 If the difference between the first and last Observations be taken, and divided by 3, the number of days between, the Clock's gain, each day, onSyderialTimewillbe only 36 " Mr. Kendall's Watch appeared to be gaining, when here, at the rate of 1 2 ", 27 7 in24h.onmean time. Lunar Observations for the Longitude of the Place. Apparent Time. True Zenith Distance of ©'a center. Zenith Distance of 5's U. L. Distance of the G and r's Limbs. H ' " Q O ' O ' 1 56 394 87 If 1 354 87 04 J 3*4 87 O j 29 86 594 *7 44 76 394 26 j 59 I 2 Zi 59 1 20 5H 18 5 8 I 164 574 J *34 57 J 1 56 8 87 04 I i 54 87 0 1 4 87 0 1 2 86 59 s I 56 0 59 V >17 29 32 75 24 55 58 59 ( 1 56 58 s 1 54 584 i 52 ! 58 j 5° 571 -774- D Dec. 26. Time by the Clock. H II 50 IO 5 i 5.1 53 16 54 26 55 25 56 29 57 42 58 26 59 25 o > 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 9 25 16 29 19 14 10 5 4 52 10 42 11 51 Error of the Quadrant. *■ + 4 1 >+I O Barom, 29,64 29,6446 46 Longitude East. 289 55 O Dollond's Quad. Hazy. 290 27 45 Remarks. Ramf- den's Quad. Hazy.
ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS. 117 Observations at Christmas Sound, Continued. Lunar Observations for the Longitude of the Place. Time by the Clock. F Apparent Time. True Ze nith Distance of ©'• center. Zenith Distance of S's U. L. Distance I of the f 0 and D's Limbs. H ' " H ' " 0 ' O ' 1774. v Dec. 26 I 3 29 49 "J 3 1 >4 32 12 32 §6 34 3 *3 36 38 37 29 3 8 i 8 r 39 4 39 46 40 35 J >r8 53 39 >19 o 15 63 25 62 29 55 3 8 1 40Z 42 43 i 454 55 491 5i 524 54 554 56 Error of the Quadrant. Barorn 86 86 30 "J 29s { 294 > + 1 29 ! 28|J 2 22t 22 2l| 2l4 21 J >4-4 2 29,60 29,60 47 47 Longitude East. 290 43 30 289 43 0 Remarks. Rams- den's Quad. Dollond' Quad. The mean result of these four is 290° 16' 25". The mean os' ten Observations taken before we arrived here, and reduced to the place by Mr. Kendall's Watch, gave the Longitude qf the Observatory 289° 52' 52"; seven taken after leaving the place gave 289° 42' 12" : the mean of the three is 289° 5/ 9"! E. <1 1 ' 3 "
ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS. 1x8 Observations at Christmas Sound, Continued. Observed Azimuths of the Sun's Center for the Variation of the Compass. '774* Zenith Distance of thecv's U. L. Azimuth of the 0's center. Variation East. '774- Zenith Distance of the 0's U. L. Azimuth of the 0's center. Variation East. O y 0 ' 0 ' O * 0 0 Gregory's Compass. Knight's Compass. $ Dec. 23. 62 us S. 67 15 W. ^ O Dec. 25. vg 3 6 i N. 68 35 E. " " 62 2 of 66 10 63 30s 68 45 m 22s 62 25s 68 45 63 2 if 68 50 I 62 31! 65 15 r-20 59 62 32s N. 68 25 E. / 62 4 St 63 45 62 24s 68 0 >24 13s ' 6z 39 64 20 62 19 67 55 J - ! 64 3 69 35 D -26. 70 5 N.80 15 E. ^ Knight's Compass. 69 53 + 80 0 h - 24. 64 27s 8. 61 50 W. - 69 46 79 55 64 44 60 30 1 69 38 79 30 64 5° 59 55 ( 69 30 79 '5 65 '£ 59 45 ?23 54 t 69 25 79 5 65 Si 59 45 Gregor fs Compass. 1 65 '7i 59 25 J 68 35 N. 73 55 E. q Gregory's Compass. I 68 2i 75 50 65 Z8 S. 57 20 W. 1 68 15s 76 5 1 V rj C 0 0 65 43i 54 20 I 68 3* 77 0 f *0 . 65 56I 56 10 f 2 7 17 67 52f 76 5° 66 11 54 35 J 67 46 72 0 The disagreement which is found amongst these variations is not to be attributed to any mis- take in the Observations, for the Compasses, and especially that of Gregory's, would, while here, point frequently five, six, and sometimes even eight and io degrees different when directed to the fame object. I cannot assign any reason for this strange circumstance; the Compasses performed well enough both before and after leaving the place. Observations for the Dip of the Needle's South End. Face of the Instrument. East. Weft. 0 ' 0 ' Changed the Poles. 67 50 67 30 6 7 45 66 ;; 67 zo 67 0 Changed the Poles. 6; 40 66 zo 67 15 66 50 65 z 5 66 zs 1774* 1( Dec. 22. Face of the Instrument. East. West. 66 20 66 50 68 o 67 o; Changed the Poles. 68 2; 69 40 67 o 69 10 67 o 66 55 66 45 66 30 1774- ? Dec. 23. Face of the Instrument. East. West. 0 ' 0 Altered the Balance. 65 0; 66 1 j 65 35 65 50 65 25 66 05 Changed the Poles. 67 10 66 1 s 6 7 35 67 15 66 40 67 1; 1 774* ? Dec. 23 The mean of all is 66 52s
ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS. i 19 - Observations at Christmas Sound, Continued. Observations on the Tides. > 7 - 74 - Time by the Clock. Apparent Time. H ' Height of the Water. Remarks, &c. 1774 - Time by the Clock. Apparent Time. h - ' Height of the Water. Remarks, &c. H F. 1 . H ' F 1. If Dec. 22. 0 k-i Low Water. T? Dec, 24 23 38 2 3 23 >; 10 3 3 High Water, Evening 2 Z 32 z O 4 4! Ditto, Morning. 0 30I 6 15! 2 4 f High Water. G. - 25. 1 3 f Low Water, i 16 2 O 4 I High Water, Evening. 1 40 10 The mark was again disturbed by the boats. 10 40 3 4 18 14 2 4 i 10 56 3 7 >8 33 2 2 11141 17 26! 3 8| High Water. i) --. 26. 18 50 us 1130 3 7 19 4 I 10 12 8 3 4 19 20 I 9 The mark was disturbed by the boats. 21 20| 2 45! I 2 Low Water, i - 2 Z- 0 S Low Water. 23 r8 9 22 36 I 9 23 4 ° 10 23 43 2 4 23 5 ° 1 if O 2 2 Si 0 6 2 2 0 13 2 0 20 2 4 1 1 37! 7 i 7 i L 8f High Water. 2 40 3 s 3 2 2 6 s 2 46 3 6 3 15 2 st 3 Sis 9 is 3 ? High Water. 3 31 2 4 4 45 3 6 11 15 3 8f 5 5 3 s * 11 40 3 9 12 15 3 0 12 i 9 | 17 s 6 L 3 10 High Water. 12 30 3 if 13 7 3 9 12 45 3 2f 13 12 3 H 13 20 3 4 f 15 53 2 3 >S 8| 21 29s 3 i°f High Water. 16 28 I I I 17 7 3 4 i 16 42 7 l 17 30 3 2f h - 24- ■9 47 ! 1 23 tV O Sr Low Water. 1 7 4 ° 3 if 22 7 f 18 0 3 O 23 is I I I $ -- 27. rf Low Water. From these Observations, it appears that the Moon passes the meridian about 2f hours before it is high water at this place : Mean height of the morning tides, three feet i| inches, the Moon being then above the horizon; the mean evening tide was two feet seven inches.
I 20 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS. Observations made at the Cape of Good Hope 17/5. Equal Altitudes. Times by the Clock B. Zenith Distance. Azimuth of D's center from the North at the times of equal Altitudes. Time of apparent Noon % Phenomena and Remarks. Lower Middle .Upper Lower Middle U pper by the Clock. Wire. Wire. Wire. Wire. Wire. Wi re. H ' " ' " O " ° O ' H ' " y.March23. 2 6f 4 SCI -9 3i *7 4 i9i 7 2 17 31 17 6 3'f 9 ! 3i; 33 3if 71 40 c ■66 20 0 0's U. L. 4 ®'s L. L. 1 c " , ®'sU.L. ( Easterly. ? -24. 3 1 49 34 4z 36 I7f • 21 33 15,73 ® s L. L. j 34 i6| 37 2? 1 13 1 32 2f 34 49 1 59 2* 3 2 36? 56 53 ■66 20 0 ©'" L- L.T ^Westerly. 3 57-f 2 I 46s 59 3 6 j 71 40 0 ®'s U. L. J T ? - 25. 34 54 37 4'l 17 37 i°l 39 57? 39 2 3f 42 1of. ■66 00 • 21 36 12,22 ®'s L. L.} Eaflerl 7* 34 ** I 32 2 Z4 49 3 2 35f - ■ 66 00 - S - 26. 54 M : S7 3*1 17 56 58 59 49§ °° D's U. L. 1 Easterly : ®'s L. L. 3 Very hazy. 21 39 7,95 20 19 23 Ids i 18 if 20 53 .S 3 6f\^ °° ®'s L. L. I Westerly : §'sU. L.J Cloudy. In the morning I found the Clock had stopped ; occasioned by the thickness of a new glass which 1 had got put before its face, the old one being broke in taking down the Clock at Otaheite. 39 20 1 42 13 5 1 44i 54 39i 20 41 39s '4 31 i 20 54 5z 57 of i 65 °° ^ 60 40 0 0 22 28,6 ©'* U. L. I G's L. L. 1 " " , ®'s U. L. f Easter! 7- 0's L.L. J D -- 27. ©'" L. L.-j SWkh'My &'s u. L. J 49 55f : 2 19s : 5 12 3 47 32 50 28J 4 0 if: 12 j>6o 40 0 57 43ij6 3 0 0 40 6f 5° 42 53 35l 20 42 24 45 '51 20 55 55f is U. L. "1 Q'sL. L. r r? n. t ©'su. L . ? Easterl y* ®'sL.L. j F - 28. 0 25 24,71 5,6 48s 59 4 2 f 7 26| 10 18s 3 54 3°f 57 23.3 4 5 8 8 of 5 2 u | I 61 40 0 55 sis + ! 4!}t 63 40 0 m L. L.-) 0!s U.,L, " . S'sL. L . ^Westerly. ®'s U. L. J j;$ - 2 9 55 59f 57 54l 20 57 21 21 0 l6 59 4'z 2 37 '61 40 0 1 0 28 19,36 0's U. L. ? r- a . 0'sL. L. 3 Easterly. flui: J™" 1 ?- 58 19! 1 i-if 3 55 SH 58 53f 53 37z ;6 34s J ■61 40 0 3 8 Z 4 40 54 20 40 21 ' 43 1 3 42 38 45 30s! •63 40 0 |'sL.'L.'} Easter ^ < U - 30 0 31 14,19 21 Sf 24 Or 4 18 5 * 21 42 !o 26 } 6 5 40 0 35 21 j8 8 20 37 37s 40 20f 39 5 - f 42 42s ! 67 00 0 34 10,68 tAEL'W ? - 3 1
ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS. 121 Observations at the Cape of Good Hope, Continued. * 775 - Equal Altitudes. Times by the Clock B. Zenith Distance. Azimuth of 0 's center from the North, at the times of equal Altitudes. Time of apparent Noon by the Clock. Phenomena and Remarks. Lower Wire. Middle Wire. Upper Wire. Lower Wire. Middle Wire. Upper Wire. H ' " 0 s ' •67 00 66 40 0 66 40 0 '69 20 0 66 40 0 66 40 0 69 20 0 54 4 ° 0 '54 4 ° 0 70 20 0 67 40 0 ■67 40 0 • 70 20 0 68 40 0 66 00 66 00 •68 40 0 ■ 70 20 0 •67 40 0 67 40 0 70 20 0 69 00 ■69 0 0 1 75 48 6| 20 59 23s 21 2 I 7 f 4 40 385 43 3 'f 4 54 4 6 ? 57 395 20 58 i6f 21 1 8| 21 12 36s . -5 325 4 33 -8 36 15 4 47 4°5 50 32 20 57 55 2 1 O45 ,2 1 12 1 if >5 75 4 45 335 48 28s 4 59 5 c 5 5 2 43 21 9 l6f 12 I Of 4 54 22s 57 >7 25 13 28 4 45 49 ? 48 41 . 25 55 27 575 , 38 54 , 5 °. *4 52 56 . 26 42 29 3 -i: 40 4-5 43 3 - 4 , 11 355 i >4 SHI 22 9 I 25 34 • 47 34 > 50 24s; 1 43 ' 4 365- 4t I2§ 52 31 55 21 . 0 3; : 3 "4 57 ? 30 56 33 53 l; 45 21 48 > 4 ? 0 12s 3 45 14 32 17 -74 43 >>5 46 8f 57 32 0 24s 11 35 ? 14 31 : 52 2f 54 57 89 0 86 20 86 4 s Var. 43 3 ° 43 50 45 55 89 10 88 25 86 45 86 15 2 l 3-4 42 30 43 35 45 40 46 0 88 30 87 45 86 15 85 55 West. 42 30 45 5 45 50 0 37 5,75 0 40 0,27 0 48 46,31 0 51 40,5 0 54 37'38 1 0 32,08 1 3 29,-16 S : I ui } Westerly. 0 's u. L.T giu± 0 ' s L. L., 0 's L. L.-j 0 's U. L. 0's U. L.T 0's L. L. " , ctsu.l. f Easter] y- ©' s L. L. 0'sL. L.T 0 's U. L. ... st , 0 .s L.L. Westerly. ©'• U. L.J 0 's U. L .4 |'sU. L*. ' Ea[lerl y* 0's L. L.J 0 's L. L. 0 's U. L. . ir " , 0 's L. L. > w ^rly. 0's U. L.J 0 's U. L. |>u±} Eaaer, y- 0 's L. L., 0 's L. L. 7 0'S U. L.J Iq'su.l.) 0 's L. L. J hastedy *
122 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS Observations at the Cape of Good Hope, Continued. 1 7 75 * s April 4 - ¥ h S 3 > 13 ' 14. > 5 - 17 - 18 . ! 9 ' Equal Altitudes. Times by the Clock B. Lower Middle Wire. Wire. H ' " *7 54 i 21 20 20 20 53 23 15! 32 34 f 21 35 0 35 3 3 l Z8 of 49 '1 4 46 35 52 . 49 35 3 39 5 1 18 6 36! 4 I2| 21 8f 21 23 30s H 3 l 26 z6f '2 3*1 5 10 7 ? 15 z 4 13 3 I'tie Clock stopped ag minute hand. 37 i 5 l 22 40 4 4 ° 43 43 33 * 6 41! 4 3 5 1 1 10 9i 7 21 24 44 23 27 Z'i 28 i8i 3 ' 47 i 4 h 20 . 23 Upper Wire. Zenith Distance. Azimuth of the 0 's Center from the North, at the Times of equal Altitudes. I } 69 20 22 42 25 39 E_!i!} 66 40 44 7 i 47 lo !S !! i\n 66 40 SH: 28 49 7 45 10 42 A 70 20 o 39 3 2 i 42 30 52 35 21 44 56: 21 55 4 * 55 4 ° 3 53 5 1 23 6 59 f 4 27* 17 1 5 >4 35 20 24 "7 35 * 55 4 2i 57 34 § 58 7 i 22 0 38 5 4 56 10 29 7 57 " 6 r 7 f 22 8 48s 9 22 i> S 3 i 14 26 : 5 11 54 s 17 32 i iS 1: 42 5 z i I "£' 4 33i. 30 58 35 *7i 18 7 ' 32 29 : 44 21 47 21 57 31 O 3 6 58 55 ' 2 I " 12 1 I -5 1 if O 3 3 6 2 29 ' 5 33 . I 1 18 '4 2 4 t. 12 3'i. 70 20 O for a few 1 58 40 o 58 40 o 52 40 o 52 40 o 7000 67 40 o 67 40 o 70 o o 68 o c 68 o o 68 20 o 68 20 o Lower Wire. Middle Wire. Upper Wire. Time of Apparent Noon by the Clock. H 1 12 29,72 1 18 29,49 1 23 54>4 1 26 54,84 1 29 58,52 Phenomena and Remarks. 1 32 59.05 1 42 6,37 G's U. L. - ) 0 's L. L. f " a , ®"s u. l. f EasterI y- 0's L- L 'J ■0's ti* L.") G'S U. L. f .jr st . 0 's L. L. {Westerly. m u. l.j | ; lu.L:} w ' to| r- O's L. L. J westerly. 0 's U. L 0 's U. L 0 's L. L. 0 's U. L. | Easterly Easterly. 0's L. L.J 0 'S L. L. 0 's U. L. / n 1 0 's L. L. {Westerly. 0's U. L. J NLriZ°-"°ch- fst&t** 1 * 0's L. L. } " , 0 's U. D.^^rly. The Clock was fixed up in the usual manner. The pendulum vibrated i °4 each way from the perpendicular, until April 9, after which its vibrations were x°4 each way until it was taken down.
ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS. 123 Observations at the Cape of Good Hope, Continued. Observed Times of the transits of the Sun, Moon, and Stars, over the Meridian. Times by the Clock B. 1775 - First Second Middle Fourth Fifth Fhenomena. Wire. Wire. Wire. Wire. Wire. / ✓✓ H ' " , " O March 26. 33 234 34 5 t 21 34 48 35 3 i O's 1 st Limb. 36 14 3 6 564 37 39 i 3 8 214 O } s 2d Limb. Moved the stand of the Instrument a small matter, so as to carry it to the westward, and fixed it very firmly. i -- 27. 20 9s 20 51s O 21 34s 22 174 O .'s 1 st Limb. 25 8 4 23 of O 23 43 24 264 O 5 s 2d Limb. Moved the Instrument, by means of the screw, to the eastward. 3 i 54 l 32 3 8 6 33 23 34 74 34 5 i Syrius. 24 17 24 594 7 25 42 26 25 27 7 Procyon. $ --- 28. 23 It 23 43 0 24 254 25 9 o's ist Limb. 25 524 0 26 344 27 174 27 59 i O's 2d Limb. 59 48! 0 3 't 5 1 i 4 1 58 2 394 Rigel. / 39 5 ? 39 474 5 40 294 4 i Hi 4 i 554 x Orionis. 31 12s ^Ti 564 6 32 41 33 26 34 9 Syrius. 16 4! 16 54 7 i 7 44 18 354 19 24? Castor. 23 34 24 16-J 7 24 59 25 42f 26 24s Procyon. 27 26 28 13s 7 29 i 4 29 51 3 ° 3 8 f Pollux. 36 12 19 36 55 37 384 " Aquilae. D 's 2(1 Limb. 52 54 ! 1 53 3 8 22 54 214 55 6f 55 4 8 f S -- 29. 26 374 0 27 20 0 29 29s 30 12 f 59 54 59 48 5 0 3 1 1 i 4 4 1 564 Rigel. 39 4 i 5 39 47 ? 40 31 x Orionis. 30 294 28 50s 3 i 134 6 31 58 19 36 11 32 42s 33 26 Syrius. x Aquilae; cloudy. L>o"dy. - go. 29 32 0 30 i 4 f 3 ° 5 8 ! 3 1 4 i 4 0 32 244 33 7 ? 33 484 37 3 8 ! 38 214 5 39 4 39 47 40 29 cs Orionis. 29 46^ 30 30 6 31 144 3 1 597 32 42 i Syrius. Moved the Instrument a little more to the eastward, by means of the horizontal screw. ? - 31. 3 i 434 32 244 0 23 8 33 5 1 34 33 o's ist Limb. 33 52 34 334 0 35 17 36 of 3 6 42 f G 's 2d Limb. h April 1. 34 3 8 ! 35 21 0 36 34 36 47 37 284 o's ist Limb. 36 47! 37 30 0 38 13 38 56 39 37 ! O's 2d Limb. 13 8 13 57 7 i 4 474 15 39 16 28 Castor. 20 39J 21 22s 7 22 4 f 22 48 23 29s Procyon. 7 26 54 Pollux. 9 37 10 19s 9 ii 24 11 46 12 274 x Hydra. 50 9 9 50 524 5 i 37 Regulus.
astronomical observations 124 Observations at the Cape of Good Hope, Continued. Observed Times of the Transits of the Sun, Moon, and Stars over the Meridian. * 775 - © April 2. 3) n 6 . Times by the Clock B. First Second Middle Fourth Fifth Phenomena, &c. Wire. Wire. Wire. W ire. Wire. ✓ ✓ H ' " / 37 3 2 4 38 15 0 3 8 574 39 4i © 's ist Limb. 40 24s 0 41 74 4i 5°t 42 3*4 O 's ad Limb. 27 5 2 4 28 36 2 29 204 30 5 30 484 5's ist Limb. 15 28| 16 I2f 4 16 564 17 41 18 24t Aldebaran. 56 54 4 57 364 58 20 Rigel. 35 27 36 94 5 36 524 37 36 38 Hi ot Orionis. 27 36 28 19I 6 29 4 29 484 30 3 2 f Syrius. 12 23I 13 12 f 7 H 3i H 54l 15 43f Castor. *9 55 i 20 374 7 21 204 22 3! 22 45 Procyon. 24 33 7 25 214 26 104 Pollux. 40 28s 41 10 0 41 53 42 364 o's Id fc 1 Cl0Ud >'- 43 J 9 44 24 44 457 45 254 43 23I 44 6 46 i5t 0 44 484 0 46 58s 45 3'i 47 4*1 48 234 ©'s ist L. ? , O's 2 d l. 5 cloud y* 46 19! 47 if 0 47 44 48 277 ©'s ist L. 1 , 0 ' S -d l. 1 clouil y- 49 11 0 49 53f 5° 364 51 184 13 19? H 3 4 H 477 1 5 327 16 154 Aldebaran. 54 2 \ 54 444 4 55 274 56 n* 56 534 Rigel. 5's ist Limb. .5 4-4 6 27 5 7 13 7 59i 8 44 33 l 7 r 34 oj 5 34 44 : 35 264 36 84 ot Orionis. 25 27 26 11 6 26 554 27 40 28 23 Syrius. 10 1 si 1 ' 3i 7 ir 54 12 44s 13 34 Castor. 1 7 46 18 284 7 -9 n 19 544 20 36 Procyon; 22 23s 7 23 12 24 it Pollux. 49 Hi 49 56s 0 50 39 5i 39 G's ist Limb. 52 5 t 52 48s 53 327 54 I3i G's 2d L. 12 364 13 -9i 4H 3 t 14 484 15 3i4 Aldebaran. 3 2 34 57 43i 33 5 33 59i 34 43 35 257 a Orionis. 58 29 5 59 *5* 0 2 § 0 461 }'s ift Limb. 25 274 626 1i| 26 57 Syrius. 9 294 I 10 19s 7 it 94 12 1 12 50 Castor. illti W vU Ulv well Vrlivl "- o o\/ w luicur ujulivi uhv. uigULLl ■ ii UJ ULtvU ilj dUvl moved the Instrument a little more to the eastward, as well to be nearer the plane of the Meridian, as to make the middle wire coincide with the sharp edge of a cliff in the Table Mountain, which being seen against the Iky, formed a much better Meridian Mark than what 1 had before. ©'s st L. O's 2d L. Rigel. (3 Tauri. ? 7- 0 53 33I 54 16s 54 59 54 18 55 °l 0 55 424 52 34 t 53 174 4 54 °7 54 434 55 254 ■4 - 8. v 52| 5 1 404 2 294 | Cloudy.
ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS, 125 Observations at the Cape of Good Hope, Continued. Observed Times of the Transits of the Sun, Moon, and Stars, over the Meridian. Times by the Clock B. I77S- First Wire. Second ■ Wire. Middle Wire. Fourth Wire. Fifth Wire. Phenomena, &c. H ' " ✓ // / if 1? April 8. 31 H 3 1 5i 5 32 Z4 33 i 7 \ 33 59 a Orionis. 8 44 l 5 37 8 54f 16 19! 7 9 444 7 >7 2 ? 10 36 J 7 45 11 25 18 27 Procyon 1 Ca P tain Cook ' 19 27 20 144 7 2i 3I 21 5 2 ic 22 39I Pollux. 39 53l 46 22i 4 35 36 38s 4° 384 47 6 5 l ?i 15 6 7 37 2 34 7 4i 24! 7 47 50 38 94 42 11? 48 34s 6 44 Suposed w Cancri, D's ist Limb. £ Cancri. a. Hydrae. 42 55f 49 174 7 26 9- ■ - 44 23I 9 45 5° 46 34! 47 *7 Regulus. At 11 h. 37' 3 6"f by the clock, £ Cancri immerged behind the Moon's dark Limb. It was very hazy; but the Observation may, I think, be depended on. The moon set behind the high lands to the westward, before the emersion. O - 9. 58 34 58 454 0 59 28j 0 114 o's ist Limb. 0 55 1 1 38s 2 22 3 34 O's 2d Limb. 14 55f 15 371 7 16 2O5 17 4 17 454 Procyon. 18 45 19 3 2 4 7 20 21 21 IO| 21 574 Pollux. 29 aH 3° 3 1 8 31 16 J 32 2 § 32 464 5's ist Limb. 8 33 47f 2d 0 Cancri. At 9 h. i4' 57"4 2da ad ° Cancri immerged behind the D . It was hazy, and strong wind, which shook the Telescope much ; but I think the Observation pretty good. I could not see the emersion. 43 4i? 44 2,4 9 45 84 45 524 46 35 Regulus. I - IO. 1 0 1 424 1 2 254 3 94 o's ist Limb. 3 524 4 354 5 19 = 6 1 ©'s 2d Limb. 14 12 % 14 55 7 *5 38 16 21 j 17 34 Procyon. 18 14 '5 334 7 16 164 17 0 Small * following Procyon. 18 49 7 l 9 S 8 20 27 21 144 Pollux. 3 534 9 4 36 5 19s a. Hydrae. r8 534 16 28 9 l 7 ll i 17 55t 0 Leonis, l 9 37 9 20 214 21 7l 21 Zt 5's ist Limb. 42 59 43 4i4 9 44 254 45 94 45 524 Regulus. 24 494: ti 25 35 26 20 (i Leonis. -1 I. 13 32 6 574 14 14 7 7 33t 7 14 56s 16 22 Castor. Procyon. o's ist Limb. S -- 12. 7 4-0 i 8 234 9 74 9 524 : i 334 Cloudy O's 2d Limb. 1 50 2 324 9 3 -54 3 594 4 404 cc Hydrae. Cloudy. L 's ist L. Exceeding foggy and cloudy. 55 67 : 56 40 to 57 242 58 8 58 50: In the morning, I found that the Transit Instrument deviated from the mark about the breadth of the wire : Re adjusted it.
ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS 126 Observations at the Cape of Good Hope, Continued. Observed Times of the Transits of the Sun, Moon, and Stars, over the Meridian. Times by the Clock B . First Second Middle Fourth Fifth 1 775- Wire. Wire. Wire. Wire. Wire. x henomena, &c. ' " ' " H ' " U April 12. 9 594 iO 4 1 1 1 11 244 o's ist Limb. T 3 344 14 18 ' *5 04 O's 2d Limb. 6 21 21 Syrius. 5 28s 7 6 l84 7 94 Castor. 12 54 7 l3 37 14 20f Procyon. 7 '7 374 Pollux. 1 I0 4 I 527 9 2 357 3 J 9 4 1 a. Hydrae. 11 24 584 ,3 Virginis. 44 444 45 26s n 46 11 46 55 47 37 D's 1 st Limb: Foggy. 57 53 § 12 59 194 0 4 0 454 Spica'tK : Very foggy. ¥ .. 12 59 13 4 J 4 1 14 25 : o's lst Limb. 16 344 17 187: 18 of O's ad Limb. 3 5 8 4 4 474 7 5 384 6 . 2 9 t 7 184 Castor. 12 14 7 12 5H 13 40 Procyon. 7 16 564 Pollux. 1 12 9 1 55 t 2 39 a. Hydrae. 22 531 23 36 ii 24 184 25 2 25 434 (3 Virginis. 12 26 5° £ Virginis. 57 14 57 564 12 58 394 59 23 0 16 Spica Virginis. h -15. 16 42 s 1 17 254 18 94 o's ist Limb. 18 524 19 36 20 19s O's 2d Limb. 3 18 4 74 7 4 58 5 49 6 38 Castor. 7 12 164 Procyon. 9 1 15 a, Hydrae. 56 33 + 57 15 12 57 594 58 43i 59 254 Spica Virginis. 25 33 26 16- 13 2 7 0 27 44 5's ist L.2h. 18 past the 8, 28 264 29 iof 29 55 30 3 7 D's 2d Limb. 48 30 49 14 13 49 594 50 45 r 5 1 30 Arcturus. Clock stopped near a minute. O - 16. iS 22| 1 9 54 1 19 484 O's ist Limb. 21 58 : 22 42| 23 244 O's 2d Limb. 5 - 17. 21 234 22 6 I 22 4 94 23 24 o's ist Limb. 24 16 24 594 25 43 26 26 o's 2d Limb. Clouds. 6 57 15 5 45 : 8 234 : Clouds. a Cor. Bor. i -- 18. 1 25 1 7 2 20 : 3 11 Castor. 8 54 r 7 9 374 10 20f Procyon. 7 i3 384 Pollux. 3 6 5 H 37 4i 9 38 25 39 9 i 39 52 Regulus. 45 58 56 444 1 5 57 32s 38 20f 59 64 Antares. - 5 8 43 15 59 3°4 0 x8i Small * following Antares, 2 13? 3 0 16 3 4"f 4 37 5 24 r Scorpii.
astronomical observations 127 Observations at the Cape of Good Hope, Continued. Observed Times of the Transits of the Sun, Moon and Stars over the Meridian. *775- $ April 18, S - 19. 20. 21 . 22 . 23 24 25 Times by the Clock B. First Wire. Second Wire. Middle Wire. Fourth Wire. Fifth Wire. * " H ' 14 1 14 46: 16 15 3 2 7 16 -74 Clouds. 4 544 5 3 6 4 17 6 214 7 54 7 48 27 274 28 10 1 28 534 3i 44 3- 484 32 304 59 58 0 474 7 1 384 2 29 3 -84 7 3if 8 14: 7 8 564 9 40 10 22 11 20 12 84 7 12 5 6 4 13 4 54 -4 33 4 I2f 4 55 4 i7 5 39 6 234 7 6 8 0: 8 5°4 r 7 9 33 4 10 164 10 58 14 84 H 544 >7 -5 404 16 27 -7 12 26 44 17 26 484 27 34 27 594 28 434 -7 29 28 30 -3 - 3i 404 l 7 32 25 33 10 8 2 18 8 564 9 52 8 38 9 3-4 18 10 26 11 2-4 12 14 3° 274 3i 10 1 3i 53* 34 5 34 484 35 3 1 59 164 0 64 7 0 567 1 474 2 36: 6 494 7 324 7 8 144 8 574 9 394 10 384 11 264 7 12 15 -3 4 -3 5- 36 1 34 56* 35 397 22f 37 64 59 234 7 0 14 1 5 56 6 49 7 7 32 8 -5; 9 10 4 34 7 11 32 12 214 -3 84 42 39 -9 44 94 18 45 39 43 49 -9 44 334 45 46 26 -9 47 104 47 544 1 7 234 18 8f 20 18 534 "9 394 20 234 • 39 354 40 i"4 1 4i 2| 4- 464 42 294 43 -34 43 574 44 40 16 74 16 5i4 2! -7 364 18 204 -9 5i 42 40 43 23 I 44 64 44 5v4 45 334 46 -74 47 -4 47 44i • 45 444 46 27: I 47 104 47 554 48 38 - 49 224 150 64 Phenomena, &c. L's 2d Limb. a, Ophiuchi. o's 1 st Limb. o's 2dLimb. Castor. Procyon. Pollux. " Ophiuchi. t B's 2d Limb. T hese three Stars are in the telescope together, and nearly in the fame parallel of declination ; the middle one is (T believe) the 394th in La Ladle's Catalogue. Small * preceding " Lyrae. " Lyrae. o's 1 st Limb. O's 2d Limb. Castor. Procyon. Pollux, o's ist Limb. O's 2d Limb.) Castor. Procyon. Pollux, xma ad " 7 2 daad. 1 Capricorn.. Small * following them. B's 2d Limb. o's 1 st Limb. O's 2d Limb. P's 2d Limb. O's ist Limb. O 's 2d Limb. O's ist Limb. O's 2d Limb. 4 This Star, as far as I can find, is not in any catalogue : it may be about the sixth magnitude, and its zenith distance at the Cape, as Ihewn by the index of the transit instrument, was 33° 30, or thereabouts; consequently its declination will be about 0° 26'S. and its right ascension 17 h. 29' 2i"4. L 1
O* O 128 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS. Observations at the Cape of Good Hope, Continued. Observations of Meridian Altitudes of the Sun and Stars. 1 775- s April 7 12 *3 14. *5- 16. 17 18 19 Zenith Interior Arch. Distances, Exterior Arch. 0 G. 8 . V. +" 4 i 2 4 43 3 3 15 4 i 14 45 44 0 0 17 17 30 0 18 2 21 16 66 15 0 7 ° 2 22 6 39 41 55 42 1 12 20 42 52 53 45 2 3 1 20 l 9 5 8 5 21 1 6 0 34 52 12 37 0 25 16 42 43 15 45 2 9 20 43 l 5 27 46 0 18 22 l 7 30 12 18 2 22 5 39 42 5 42 1 13 4 62 26 53 66 2 15 i 4 5 27 10 5 3 10 8 12 45 20 13 2 14 0 *9 57 45 21 1 6 10 34 5 - 20 37 0 23 17 24 34 22 26 0 27 16 39 42 8 42 1 13 13 62 27 15 66 2 15 8 5 27 52 5 3 11 io 12 45 7 13 2 15 5 l 9 5 8 5 21 1 7 10 34 5 i 50 37 0 23 20 39 42 0 42 1 12 l 8 62 26 57 66 2 15 23 34 52 0 37 0 25 8 44 l 9 55 47 1 5 5 5 27 37 5 3 11 6 5 26 50 5 3 9 0 12 45 8 13 2 14 10 19 57 50 21 1 6 6 34 51 37 37 0 23 10 24 34 3 8 26 0 27 22 39 42 7 42 1 13 8 5 26 3 ° 5 3 9 10 12 45 4 13 2 14 0 *9 5 8 0 21 1 7 8 34 5 i 5 37 0 23 7 • 45 22 15 48 1 19 8 44 49 37 47 3 9 15 34 52 0 37 0 25 5 24 34 15 26 0 27 22 Exterior Arch reduced. 3 ° 17 7 41 41 15 17 30 66 15 23I- 39 42 10 42 53 20 19 57 57 34 5 2 3° 42 43 40 43 15 46s 17 30 22§ 39 42 20s 62 27 27 5 27 58 12 45 3 1 i 19 58 34 5 1 3 § f 24 34 3 8 39 42 29s 62 27 21 5 28 26 12 46 03 19 5 8 33 34 5 1 4if 39 42 08 62 27 36 34 5 2 22 44 20 o| 5 28 22 5 27 23s 12 45 4 1 ! 19 5 8 3 34 5 1 3if 24 34 44 39 42 24s 5 27 ZZr 12 45 3 1 * 19 5 8 3 1 34 5i 28s 45 22 32f 44 5 ° o 8 f 34 52 J 9 24 34 44 Barom. 29,98 30,01 29,87 29,87 29,87 30,02 30,04 30,04 30,02 29,98 29,97 29,97 7 29,97 1 30,01 30,0 *9,99 29,97 30,0 29,94 30,0 30,0 30,0 30,01 30,01 30,18 30,18 30,18 30,0 Therr 1 -l S3 g" g nom. O £5 76 75 c 72s 75i c 7° t 654 s 70 65 c 70 65 s 68t 69 6 7 t 6if 9 68 6it P 67 6l "! f 66 63 c y 66 62 3 ^ 67 70 < 69 69 ^ ^ 7} Phenomena and Remarks. 's L. L. ^ Cloudy. U. L. ©'s L. L. U. L.
ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS. 129 Observations at the Cape of Good Hope, Continued. Observations for the Error of the Line of Collimation, made with the Board as formerly Means. Means. Zenith distance of the upper hole: the quadrant direct. Zenith distance of the lower hole : the quadrant inverted. Interior Arch. Exterior Arch' Interior Arch. Exterior Arch. □ - " G. S. V. +" 0 ' " G. 8. V. +" 87 49 22 93 2 22 >3 92 ii 27 98 1 10 22 7 22 6 5 10 20 20 22 16 15 10 20 0 22 20 0 10 5 20 22 13 20 10 15 5 22 20 23 10 20 87 49 I2f 93 2 22 1 4 t 92 ii 15 98110 l 7 87 49 O 93 2 22 12 92 10 30 98 1 9 6 10 2 3 O 20 9 0 O 2 3 O 38 9 18 12 23 5 - . 5 9 0 O 22 16 SO 9 16 O 22 18 20 9 0 50 9 20 87 49 3 t 93 2 22 21,7 92 10 27s 98 1 9 84 87 48 52 93 2 22 6 92 10 38 98 1 10 11 49 30 2 3 20 11 5 10 5 48 45 22 5 11 0 10 0 48 50 22 0 10 55 9 15 10 40 10 8 87 48 597 93 2 22 I 4t 92 10 5 ii 98 1 10 2f The Quadrant was inverted between every set, as the means are here taken, and of course the Observations give nine comparisons for each arch of the Quadrant; the mean result of which gives i",8 to be added to the interior arch, and 8"f to be subtracted from the exterior arch.
13° astronomical observations. Observations at the Cape of Good Hope, Continued. Computations of the Latitude, from the foregoing Observations. Latitude by f Interior Exterior Declination. -775- Arch. Arch. Q ' " 0 - " by Observations of Syrius. $ April 11. A- - iZ- 33 55 57z 33 56 9z 33 55 54- I 33 56 10 X 16 25 18s 33 56 3f 1 33 5 6 1 Mean. By an Observation of Castor. $ April 11. 33 55 38 | 33 55 5if 1 32 21 3 2jN. By Observations of (3 Navis. g - 1 2. 33 55 1 if 33 55 if 1 n -13. 33 56 2 33 55 53f ¥ --4- 33 55 3if 33 55 5°f >68 47 41 8. 1? -15. 33 55 22 33 55 10 5 -- 17. 33 55 45 33 56 of $ - j 8. 33 56 17 33 56 03s 2 -19. 33 55 22! 33 55 13s J 33 55 3 8 i I 33 55 3 6 f 1 Mean. By Observations of ?, Navis. It April 13. 33 55 58 •33 55 5 z f [58 ZO 32 S. J> -17. 33 55 42- 33 55 4 6 ? 2 -iy- 33 56 5l 33 55 46- \ n Navis. 33 55 5St 33 55 48s Mean. 0 -- . 33 55 38L 33 55 36s Ditto. £-- 33 55 28s 33 55 *if Ditto. 7 -■ . 33 55 5*2 33 55 2 9i Ditto. f- 33 55 43 33 55 i° Ditto. Southern H 's> 33 55 43f 33 55 29 Mean. The Sun. 33 55 53? 33 56 1of Mean. Syrius. 33 56 3z 33 56 2s Ditto. Castor. 33 55 38 33 55 5'f Ditto. Procyon. 33 55 47 33 55 52s Ditto. Pollux. 33 55 53f 33 5 6 9f Ditto. Northern sfc's. 33 55 5i 33 5 6 *5 Mean. Southern ditto. 33 55 43f 33 55 29 Ditto. Mean of both. 33 55 47- I 33 55 45so I 33 55 45t'o | Exterior Arch • 33 55 461 8. Latitude. 33 55 42; Messrs. Mason and Dixon. 33 55 39+ Abbe de la Caille. 33 55 30 Mr. Bayley. -775- Latitude by Interior I Exterior Arch. I Arch. Declination. c> " | O I Q ' By Observations of the Sun. ? April 7- 33 55 48s 33 56 5 6 30 58 N. 0 - 9- 33 55 43- 33 5 6 5 7 35 46 2 -- I 2. 33 55 45f 33 55 S 8 8 42 O % -- 13- 33 5b 21 33 5b 33 9 3 47 0 ■-- l6. 33 5 6 3 33 5 b 3- 10 8 15 2 ■ 19. 33 55 34- 33 55 49- 11 II 12; 33 55 53! 1 1 56 - 5 57 >h 1 - •5- 33 55 44 33 55 42 i 7 - $ -18. % April 13 ¥ - -4' D - 17 $ -18 ^ April iz U - 13 9 - 14 D - 17 39 22 43 S. 33 55 35 I 33 55 35fJ 33 55 43 33 55 I Means. By Observations of y Navis. 33 55 4'! 33 55 54i 33 55 53- 33 55 57 f 33 55 5if 33 55 39| 33 55 8? J.46 40 ei,8 8. 33 55 2 9z 4 5 > 33 55 39f 33 55 2 9) I Mea0 - By Observations of J Navis. 33 55 z °i 33 55 4°f 33 55 20 i 33 55 35f 33 55 2 5f 33 55 38 s "1 33 55 28 s I 33 55 H >53 53 2 4 z s - 33 55 3 2 i I 33 55 4 J 33 55 2g f 33 55 2 1 i I Mean.
ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS. 131 Observations at the Cape of Good Hope, Continued. Computations of the Clock's Rate of going. Comparisons of the Transit Instrument with equal Altitudes. *775 • Time of ap. parent Noon by the Clock. Syderial Time of apparent Noon. Difference. Clock loses. • 1775. Noon by equal Altitude-'. The 0 paiTed the Transit Instrument. W ~' " Difference, Error of the Instrument. H H H ' " ? March 24. 21 33 15.73 O 13 18,71 160 2,98 0 March 26. ri 39 07,95 21 35 52,44 3 15,51 82 50 h - 25- 21 36 I 2,22 0 l6 56,71 160 44>49 41,5 1 Altered the Instrument. 0 -- 26. 21 39 7.95 0 20 35*43 l6l 27,48 42,99 v -- 27. O 22 28,60 0 22 38,91 0 10,31 4 20 v - 27. 0 22 28,60 0 24 i3. z 4 X 44,64 Altered the Instrument. F - 28. O r; 24,71 0 27 Si, '3 2 26,42 4 r "7® $ -- 28. 0 25 24,71 0 25 30,41 0 5,70 2 22 S - 29. O 28 19,36 0 31 28,13 3 8,77 42,35 S •- 29. 0 28 19,36 0 28 24,94 0 5.58 2 18 u - 3°* O 31 14,19 0 35 07.-3 3 52,97 44-20 n - 30. 0 31 14,16 0 31 19,09 0 5,5° 2 17 ? - 3'- O 34 10,68 0 38 45,22 4 34.54 41-57 Moved the Instrument. 1,87 h April I. O 37 05.75 0 42 23.32 5 '7,57 43>oz ? - 31. 0 34 10,68 0 34 12,55 0 O 45 O - 2. O 40 0,27 0 46 01,61 6 01,34 43-77 h April 1. 0 37 5,75 0 37 8,25 0 2,50 X O S - 5 O 48 46.3- 0 56 57,19 8 10,88 43-18 0 - 2. O 4O 0,27 0 40 z,53 0 2,26 O 54 n - 6. O Si 4°, 50 I O 36,08 8 55.58 44>7o L - 5- 0 48 46,31 0 48 49> 0 0 2,69 I 2 ? -- 7- 0 54 37.3 s I 4 15,08 9 37,70 4--12 "4 - 6. 0 51 40,50 0 51 44,06 0 3.56 I 21 O - 9- I O 32,08 I I 33,66 X I 01,58 4i,94 Moved the Instrument. v -- 10. I 3 29,16 I -5 13,34 I 44.i8 42,60 r - 7- 0 54 37,3 8 0 54 38,38 0 1.0 O 23 % -- " >3' 1 12 29,72 2 b 14,0 13 44,28 40,3 0 - 9- I O 32,08 I O 33-47 0 i,39 0 31s h 15- I 18 29.49 I 33 35-87 is 06,38 41,05 D - 10. 1 3 29,16 I 3 30,78 0 1,62 0 36 Clock stopped. n - '3 I 12 29,72 1 12 29,83 0 0,1 I 0 3 V -- *7- 1 23 54.40 40 59,34 17 4,94 h - IS- I 18 29,49 X 18 31,04 0 1.55 0 33 S - 18. 1 26 54,84 1 44 4',5i 17 46.67 4 T >73 i - >7- T 23 54,40 I 23 54,79 0 0,39 0 8* S - 19. X 29 58,52 48 24,19 18 25,67 39>o L -- 19. I 29 58,52 I 29 59,08 0 0,56 0 12 n 20 I 32 59,05 S 2 7,26 19 8,21 V - 20. 1 32 59,05 I 32 59,29 0 0,24 0 5 - 2 3- I 42 6,37 2 3 19,29 21 12,92 4 I >5 7 © - 23. I 42 06,37 I 42 7,94 0 J,57 0 31 The difference between the rates of the Clock's going now, and when here in November 1772, is very extraordinary; but cannot, I think, be imputed to any absolute alteration in the length of the pendulum, as it had never been altered, in any respect, after the Clock was set up at Dusky Bay ; and although before that time it was always altered, in order to its being packed up, yet on setting it up again, it was constantly brought back to its proper length, by means of a scratch on the rod, and the numbers on the nut. But, notwithstanding, I think it highly probable that the cause does not lie there, I am utterly unable to assign any other satisfactory one; and the most likely hint I am able to give, after the closest examination, is, that all the time the Clock was now going here, the principal play, or bending of the pendulum spring was down quite at the lower part of it: whether or no it had always been so, or that the principal yielding of the spring had formerly been in some part higher up, which was now grown stiff with rust, I must confess I cannot tell, as a thought of this kind did not occur to me before. It is worthy observation, that the Clock went somewhat faster the second time it was at Otaheite, than it did the first, and the difference was yet greater at Queen Charlotte's Sound. M m
IZ2 astronomical observations Observations at the Cape of Good Hope, Continued. Computations of the Rate which Mr. Kendall's Watch went at. 177 j Time of apparent Noon by the Clock. Time by Clock when the Watch was com pared. lime from Noon by the Clock. Clock gains on the Watch. Time from Noon by the Watch. Time by the Watch when compared. Time of apparent Noon by the Watch. Mean Time of apparent Noon. The Watch too flow for mean Time. Watch gains per Day. H H H H H H 5 March 24. 21 33 "5>73 2 t 57 O J 2 3 44> 2 7 2-99 23 00 23 15 511 22 52 >0,47 24 6 26,05 I 14 '5,58 13.33 13,61 H>37 11.34 b -- -5- 21 3b 12,22 21 -4 4i 22 7-97 2,77 22 5.20 22 3° 0 22 52 5,20 24 b 7.45 14 2,25 0 - 26. 21 39 7-93 21 45 U 6 °>5S 0,76 5 59.79 22 58 0 22 52 00,21 24 5 48,85 13 48.64 v - 27. 0 22 28,60 O 40 35 18 6,40 2,27 18 04,13 23 IO 0 22 5- 55.87 24 5 30,14 13 34,27 S - 28. 0 23 -4-7' 0 3 2 36 7 I I ,29 0,9 > 7 10,38 22 59 0 22 51 48,62 24 5 >1,55 '3 22,93 14,26 ? - 29. 0 28 19,36 O 38 36! 10 16,89 -.'7 IO 15.72 23 2 0 22 5' 44,28 24 4 52-95 13 8,67 13,86 15,62 t 1,21 V - 30- 0 31 14,16 O 37 35 i 6 2 i,34 o,97 6 20,37 22 58 0 22 51 39.63 24 4 34-44 I 12 54,81 r - 3>. 0 34 10,68 O 43 35 9 24,32 '-'7 9 23,15 23 I 0 22 5- 36,85 24 4 16,04 I 1 2 39.19 b April I. 0 37 5.75 I l6 41 39 35. 2 5 5.00 39 30,25 23 31 0 22 5 - 29.75 24 3 57>73 I 12 27,98 12,77 13,48 12,64 14,76 1 2,05 13,63 14,25 iz .93 ' 3,83 13,09 11,58 1 I 0 -.- 2. 0 40 0,27 O 45 3 6 ! 5 36,48 0,70 5 35.78 22 57 0 22 5 ' 24,22 24 3 39.43 1 12 15,21 D --- 3 0 42 55 >° O 47 36 4 41,0 o>59 4 40,41 22 56 0 22 5 - 19.59 24 3 21,32 I 12 i ,73 S - 4 - 0 45 50,65 O 56 371 38 i to 47,02 i ,34 10 45.68 23 2 0 22 51 14.32 24 3 3 , 4 - 1 1 I 49 , 9 s - 5 - 0 48 46,31 I -4 2 5 5--94 3-22 25 48.72 23 17 0 22 5 i 11,28 24 z 45.61 I 1 I 34'33 u - b. 0 5 " 40,50 O H 3 °i 37 10 25 4>63 37 5,62 22 >4 0 22 5 - 5,62 24 2 27,90 I 11 22,28 ? - 7 - 0 54 37'38 1 1 365 6 59,12 0,86 6 58,26 22 58 0 22 5 ' ',74 24 2 10,39 1 1 X 8,65 0 -- 9 ■ l O 32,08 I 7 37 i 7 5.04 0,89 7 4>"5 22 58 0 22 5 ° 55,85 24 1 35,97 I 10 40,12 v - 10. l 3 29,16 1 11 384 8 9.09 1,02 8 8,07 22 59 0 22 50 51.93 24 I 19,12 I IO 27,19 s -- 12. I 9 28,65 I l6 42s 7 14,02 0,92 7 13.10 22 58 0 22 50 46,9c 24 O 46,23 I 9 59,33 at - 1 3 - 1 1 2 29,72 1 19 464 7 l 6-95 0,93 7 16,02 22 5 " 0 22 50 43.98 24 O 30,22 I 9 46,25 $ - H- 1 15 28,97 1 6 4 " 8 40,97 1,10 8 Z9.87 22 4 * 0 22 50 39,87 24 O * 4,53 I 9 34,66 b ■ 13. 1 18 29,49 I 24 54 l b 25,01 0,81 6 24,20 22 57 0 22 50 35,80 23 59 59,18 1 9 23.38 34,01 23 59 44.17 I S 10,16 v - - 7 - 1 23 54 ) 4 ° I 56 24! 3 2 30,35 4,10 32 26,25 23 23 0 22 50 33,75 23 59 29.53 1 8 55,78 $ - 18. 1 26 54-84 I 35 214 8 30 - 4 > 1,09 8 29,32 22 59 0 22 50 30,68 23 59 15,24 I 8 44,56 13,71 12,23 13,84 13>15 8 ■ - 19. 1 29 58,52 1 35 ocT N 5 30,15 0,70 5 29,45 Z 2 56 0 22 50 30,55 23 59 1,40 I 8 30,85 V - 20 . I 32 59 - 5 1 43 3 ' fO 3 i ,95 ',33 IO 30,62 23 I 0 22 50 29,38 23 58 48,0 I 8 18,62 r - 21. 1 3 6 0,5c I 54 0 >7 59,50 2,28 >7 57,22 23 8 28,5 22 50 30,28 23 58 35.06 1 8 4,78 O - 23. I 42 6-37 1 5 ° 35 " 8 29 ,i 3 1,07 8 28,06 22 59 0 22 50 31,94' 23 5 " 10,42 1 7 38,48 The mean of all the above gains is 13,172 j the first and last days Observations give 13",236, and the mean of the two is 13",204, the gain of the watch on mean time in twenty-four hours.
ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS 133 Observations at the Cape of Good Hope, Continued. Observations for the Dip of the Magnetic Needle. I 775* Face of the In- strument. East. West. O ' O ' 46 55 45 35 45 40 45 0 46 30 43 3° Changed the Poles. 43 0 46 55 42 30 48 i 5 42 30 48 50 44 3° 47 45 47 0 45 45 42 3° 45 50 Altered the Balance. 43 35 48 30 46 0 47 15 43 0 45 35 Altered the Balance. 45 5 45 3° 46 35 45 55 47 I 5 47 45 46 40 46 20 Changed the Poles. 45 l 5 45 2v 46 35 43 30 47 0 42 40 46 15 45 0 Face of the Instrument. East. West. O * O ' 4Z 45 46 5° 4 6 30 43 45 48 15 48 45 45 45 42 45 Changed the Poles. 47 40 44 25 46 30 45 45 48 35 47 45 46 35 47 45 45 25 43 35 45 55 42 45 45 0 47 10 Changed the Poles. 43 45 44 15 44 15 47 0 46 30 47 0 43 15 49 0 45 45 43 30 47 35 43 *° 42 45 44 3° 43 05 44 3° 42 45 43 15 Changed the Poles. 43 35 42 55 43 40 43 25 42 40 42 25 44 35 42 05 The mean of all gives the / 03 . dip of the Needle's S. end J 45 1 Observations for the Variation of the Compass. 1 775- April 23. Variation. Variation. Variation. O n * O 21 10 w. 21 15 w. 21 55 W. 21 25 21 3° 21 0 21 25 21 10 21 30 21 10 2 I 15 20 50 21 0 2 I 25 21 20 20 55 21 0 21 10 21 5 2 I 15 21 45 21 15 21 10 20 40 21 15 21 *5 21 r 5 21 10 21 10 2 > 25 21 20 21 35 21 15 21 35 21 0 21 10 20 50 21 i5 21 15 21 40 21 15 21 15 21 20 21 30 2 I 5 21 25 20 50 21 15 21 0 21 0 21 20 2 I 10 21 5 21 10 21 10 21 25 2 I 25 21 10 2 I 0 21 *5 The first two columns were obtained by placing the Compass at the Transit Instrument, and making the index befect the meridian mark ; the last was got by placing the Compass at the mark, and setting the index to cut the Transit Telescope. The mean of them all is 21 0 14 s W.
13 + ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS. Observations made at the Cape of Good Hope, Continued. As there have been some disputes concerning the relative situation of the place where the late Abbe de la Caille made his Observations, with respect to that where Messrs. Mason and Dixon, as well as Mr. Bayley and myself, observed; and, moreover, as it may also contribute something towards the business I was employed on at the Cape of Good Hope, to determine, with accuracy, the difference of latitude and meridians between these places, the following account of a survey, made for that purpose, will not, I presume, be unacceptable. In the annexed Figure, (see Plate I. Fig. i.) C is the place of the Abbe's Observatory, and O that of ours ; S N is the meridian line passing through the latter, and S a point or mark in it, 8,84 chains to the southward of the Observatory. The lines S G, G E, E A, and A C, which are in the directions of the several streets, were carefully measured, as also the angles at S, G, E, and A. The line S G was found to be 12,26 chains (of Gunter), G E is 7,50 chains, E A 34 chains, and A C 5,64 chains. I found the inclination of the plane whereon the line O S was measured i° 25', of that whereon S G was measured z° 05'; that on which G E was measured did not differ sensibly from the horizontal level; E A declined i° 59' from the plane of the horizon, and A C was nearly horizontal. I have not made any allowance for these elevations in the computation, whereby the following results were deduced, thinking them so small as not to merit notice, but have put down the inclinations themselves, for the satisfaction of such persons as may think otherwise. The angle at S measured 14 0 48' 7 ^, that at G 112 0 51' 54", that at E 85° 41' 15', and that at A 106 0 38' 5". The quadrant sliewed angles too small by 18", as I found by Observations made for that purpose. Hence it will readily be seen that one side and all the angles are given in each triangle, from whence I found that O N, the difference of latitude, was equal to 37,69 chains, or 0,409 of a mile-24"; ; and that H B=N C, the meridian distance was 16,86 chains, or, 183 of a mile-13"^ so longitude; the Abbe's Observatory being these quantities to the northward and eastward of ours. The Mountain at this place, usually known by the name of the Table Mountain , from its fiat top, being one of the highest and most remarkable in the known world, so near the sea ; I thought the knowledge of its height might prove a matter acceptable to many, and perhaps be of some use in physical enquiries. These considerations induced me to make the following Observations, which, though not on so large a base as might be wilhed, will nevertheless, I hope, be sufficient for the purpose : The base having been measured twice over, with the utmost care, on a tolerably even plane, and the two measurements differed only nine links of Gunter's chain from each other; the whole length of the base line was 50 chains, or 3300 Engliffi feet, and lay in a direct line from that part of the hill which I observed the altitude of. Being thus pretty well assured of the length of my base, I placed the astronomical quadrant at the lower end of it, set the Telescope very nicely to 90°, allowing the error of the Quadrant, and turned it round until the middle horizontal wire cut the main-topmast of the Resolution as ffie lay at anchor in the bay; and when I had adjusted the plumb-line very accurately, I sound that the middle wire of the Telescope cut the main-topmast about 4th, or jd of the way up between the cap of the main-mast and the trussel-trees of the main-topmast.
Plate. J vim CSdJirs < V
\ Z ' rum: Yf -** 9 MM 'MM
ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS. *35 Observations at the Cape of Good Hope, Continued. > I next took the following zenith distances of a mark at the upper end of the base-line, which was exactly of the fame height from the ground with the center of the Quadrant, viz. Interior Arch. Exterior Arch. v t G. 8 . V. +" "7 35 55 93 1 24 16 36 52 26 8 35 50 24 12 36 5 25 IO With the Quadrant yet standing at the fame place, I took the following zenith distances of the highest part of the Table Mountain : I mean that part which forms the right-hand cliff of the passage, whereby the mountain is usually ascended. Interior Arch. Exterior Arch. O • '/ G. 8 . V. +" 74 24 37 79 1 16 5 24 45 16 7 24 15 15 10 I now removed the Quadrant to the upper end of the base-line, and there took the following zenith distances of the fame point of the mountain. Interior Arch. Exterior Arch. 0 G. 8. V. +" 7 1 5 5° 5 3° 75 3 11 11 18 10 Clouds now covered the hill, so that I could get no more of these last. The Barometer stood at 29,98, and the Thermometer at 64. It is necessary to add, that the length of the Resolution's main-mast was 70 feet 11 inches, of her main-topmast 42 feet 5 inches : 11 feet and 6 inches of the main-mast was lost in the water, the top-mast overlapped at the heel 9 feet and 10 inches, and the trussel-trees were 4s feet below its cap. Hence the cap of the main-mast was 59 feet and 5 inches above the surface of the sea, and the main-topmast trussel-tree 27A feet above that; one fourth, or one third of which may be taken at 8 feet, and then the lower end of the base will appear to be 67s feet, or 22I yards above the surface of the sea, allowing nothing for the horizontal refractions, or the curvature of the earth on the distance, which was about a mile and quarter. If then, in Fig. 2, Plate II, A E represent an horizontal line drawn through A, the lower station ; B D another drawn through the upper station, B; A B the line measure, - 3300 feet, or 1100 yards, and C D the perpendicular height of the mountain above the horizontal line B D ; by taking a mean of the zenith distances Ihewn by the two arches of the Quadrant, and
ij6 ASTRONOMICAL, observations. Observations at the Cape of Good Hope, Continued. allowing the mean astronomical refractions thereon, which may, perhaps, be a small matter more than ought to be done, B F, the perpendicular height of the second station, above the first, will come out 40^- yards; and D C, the perpendicular height of the summit of the mountain, above the second station, 1422^. yards; and of course the height of the mountain's summit, above the lower station, is 1463 yards*, to which adding 22s yards, the height of the lower station above the sea, the whole height of the mountain will be 1485s yards. If no refractions whatever be allowed, B F will be 46 yards, and C D 1407 yards; and the whole height of the mountain 1475s yards above the level of the sea. As B C, the distance of the upper station from the top of the mountain, comes out only 4400^ yards in one cafe, and 4342I yards in the other; the whole distance of the top of the mountain from the sea-fhore cannot exceed four miles, as my first station was not quite three- fourths of a mile from it.
ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS *37 Observations at the Island of St. Helena, Latitude 15 0 55', 8. Longitude 5° 49', W. Observations for the Dip of the Magnetic Needle, Face of the In- Face of the In- Face of the In- *77 5* strument. 1775. strument. 1775. strument. East. West. East. West. East. West. O ' 0 ' O ' 1 Q ' Q ' ? May 19. 14 10 l4 25 ? May 19. 14 15 14 40 Changed the Poles. H 35 14 5 14 0 >3 30 so 45 8 30 14 5 o 14 IO 14 0 14 0 9 0 9 50 Mean H 3i4 "4 134 Mean 13 444 13 22| 9 5 8 35 8 45 8 45 Changed she Poles. Changed th e Poles and 8 45 8 55 9 5° 10 0 8 45 8 45 aiterea tne Balance, May 20. 12 30 11 40 8 59 8 45 12 40 11 30 Mean 9 i34 8 52 Mean 9 55 8 45 13 5 13 0 Mean of all the means n 2 ps Altered the Balance, II 204 1 3 15 13 0 13 30 13 45 II 254 11 05 lo 45 uip 01 me lveeaie s loum ena 9 3° IO 45 13 15 12 35 13 05 Mean 10 17s 10 45 13 0 Changed the Poles. 12 30 12 35 *3 55 12 5 13 15 12 30 13 10 13 40 13 10 12 25 5 12 20 Mean 12 58 12 27s Other Observations. 17 75 - Time by the Watch K. Apparent Time. Double Altitude of the o'sL.L. Error of the Quadrant. Therm. Latitude. Longitude by the Watch. H ' " H ' '' O ' / ✓/ 0 * f' O - " if. May 18. A- * 9 - h -- 20. 22 18 18 45 19 14 19 40s 20 5 20 34 _ Noon .21 48 18,1 Noon 108 31 82 26 8 2 38 82 47 T 82 564 83 34 83 ig 4 . 107 384 -i n >-o 30 -0 42 754 764 76 1 5 55 16 5 47 22| 15 55 28
138 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS. Observations at the Istand of Ascension, Latitude 7 0 56'! 8. Longitude 1 4° 32 , W. Observations for the Dip of the Magnetic Needle. Face of the Instru- Face of the Instru- 1775- ment. ment. East. West. 1775- ' East. West. Q " v ' - L ' O ' 1> May 29. 9 40 8 0 D May 29. 9 rZ to 0 9 l 5 8 30 9 *5 9 I 5 9 10 8 25 9 10 9 8 45 8 30 9 0 9 3o and twelve taken after leaving it, six of which were of the fun and moon, and six of the moon and stars, on the other side of her, gave, when reduced back by the watch, 14° 6' 50'': The mean of the two is 14° 32" 30" W. The latitude of the ship, as lhe lay at anchor, was 7° 55' 53" 8., by a mean of three Observations ; and the variation of the Compass was io° 52'! W. N. E. The highest part of the island bore W. by N. i N. by Compass, about four leagues distant. ,
ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS. tj> Observations made at cke Island of Fyal, one of the Azores, Zenith Dist tanœ. ' Supplement to' the double Altitude of the 0 's L. L. Thermometer. Time of 1 apparent Noon by , the W atch. 0 / 0 1 H ' " • 29 20 0 I 2 25 02,63 \ 2 9 20 0 [ \35 40 0 1 34 3i 47 y 6 k 2 25 24,23 }35 40 0 j 34 20 0 1 34 48 54 76 I 2 25 4T,I7 }34 22 0 ^ 55 O 0 1 35 9 48 761 2 26 02,04 155 O 0 [62 O 0 \55 20 0 U ? 4 O 0 I 34 20 0 1 35 30 45 771 2 26 19,80 j 34 20 0 W 40 0 \55 20 0 162 O c *775- V July 1 3 . 15 - 16. 5 40 i 14 5 35 i *7 18 . Equal Altitudes. Times by the Watch K. Lower Wire. 28 43M Zl 47i 18 I2| 21 12 ^ Middle Wire. H O 3* 25s 3 4 19 * 15 42 * 18 434 23 57 *3i 4 53 28 © 5 10s 4 46 05 22 21 n| 6 30 42 |] 21 - l 5 18s 22 17 34 18 2j 20 54 34 i 22 56 5*§ 57 20|r 59 Zbz 4 34* O 6 57: 7 26s 9 50 45 6 4 42 42-1 48 n - 45 36s 55 8 : 5' 57 544 -' - 34 26^ 6 32 i4i 37 ro 34 55i Upper Wire. 33 44 Z 6 474 '3 '5 16 i 6 i 59 32f 5 1 31 45 48 *9 43 364 i 8 i 461 cq 06 : 1 49l 9 12 13 16 A 40 18 s [43 H 50 40 ? 53 Hi 30 oi-J 32 44 i 4 8 i 6 53 Phenomena, &c. ©'s U. L. ) Easter- O's L. L" 1 ly. O's L. L. 1 Wes- D's U. L. J terly. O 's U. L. 1 Easter- , 0 'sL.L. j ly. Latit. 38 ° 32 ' 49 " N VsL L. ? Wef- O's U. L. 5 terly. O's U. L. 7 Easter- © VL". L. i ly. Latit. 38 ° 3 i' 43 "N G's L. L .7 Wester- O's U.L.$lyJ G's tJ. L. 1 Easter- ©'s L. L. i ly. Latit. 38032 ' 7 " N. O's L. L. I Wes- G's U. L. J terly. G's U. L. j Easter- G's L. L. ) ly. ©'s U. L. ■ G's L. L. G'" U. L. O's L. L. ©'s U. L. ©*s L. L.J Latit. 38 ° 32 ' 42 ''N. o's L. L.^ O's U. L. G's L. L. O's U. L. I G's I.. L. G's U. L. G's L. L. O's U. L.j Easter- !y- r Wef- 1 terly. O o
140 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS, Observations at Fyal, Continued. Computations of the Watch's Rate of going. 1 775 - Time of Noon by the Watch. Mean Time of apparent Noon. Watch faster than mean Time. Watch gains oa M. Time, H ' " H ' " H ' " $ July 14- h - 1 ;. 0 - 16. F - 17. $ - 18. 2 25 2,63 25 24,23 2 s 41.17 26 02,04 26 J9,8o 0 5 19,52 0 5 25,89 0 5 31,72 0 5 37>°9 0 5 42,05 2 19 43,11 19 58,34 20 09,45 20 24,95 20 37,75 b4 *-ri - CM 0 ^ 02 The mean of these four is 13",66 ; but if a mean of all the comparisons which can be formed out of the five Observations be taken, its gain on mean time will be 13,528. The longitude sliev/n by the watch is z8 v 56' 20" W. or 47 0 1 9' 35" west of the Cape of Good Hope. I had no lunar Observations here for the longitude ; but a mean of 15 taken before we arrived here, gave 28° T 44~§ when brought on by the watch ; and eight taken after leaving it, and carried back by the watch, gave 28^ 46^ 42";. The mean of the two is 28° 24' 13"^ west. Observations for the Variation of the Compass; * 775 * r July $ 17 - 18. Zenith Dis- Azimuth of tance of the the Sun's Sun. Center. O 0 ' 62 28% U. L. N. 6z 05 W.' 43 t 61 45 , 54 61 25 6z 3l 6l 20 61 0 31? 60 35 56 51 L. L. N. 66 45 W.' 57 if 64 15 57 i 3 f 66 55 57 24I , 6 5 0 59 Us N. 65 55 W. 59 211 64 25 59 364 65 15 59 4 63 5 ° Mean Variation West. 0 ' 21 574 22 40s -* 44 t* 22 7l Observations for the Dip of the Magnetic Needle. Observations on the Tides. * 775 * F July 17. Mean Mean Face of the Instrument. East. West. Q ' I V ' 70 20 71 0 70 45 72 30 7> 30 72 15 70 10 72 O 70 4 i 1 7i 5 6 * C hanged the Poles. 72 55 69 30 72 O 69 5 5 70 20 69 30 7i 45 69 15 72 05 69 25 72 O 71 IO 71 50-z 69 47f Changed the Poles. Face of the Instrument. East. West. 0 ' 9 69 35 72 15 70 30 7 i 3 ° 7 ° 4 ° 72 O 71 0 70 40 70 35 70 40 70 s 71 O 70 IO 72 O 70 22-' 71 z6f Changed the Poles. 71 45 70 45 7 i O 70 50 71 3 ° 70 30 7 > 20 7 ° 40 71 z 3 t 70 4 >r she mean ot all these means is | 71 oi{ which is the dip of the needle's north end. 1 775 Apparent Time. H ' F July o 24s 0 39s - 495 4 S 2 ! ; 17s ; 34 fl The water at a mark. The water at a second mark. It came to a third. High water. The water returned to the third mark. It returned to the second. It returned to the first. By one mark the water appeared to flow four feet and one inch, and by another only three feet and ten inches: The mean of the two is three feet, 11 inches and a half.
ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS FOR Determining the Latitude of the Ship, and her Longitude, by Mr. Arnold's two Watches, No. i and 2. Made on Board his Majesty's Sloop Adventure, in her late Voyage on Discoveries towards the South, By Mr. WILLIAM BAYLEY. "
II : > ; rS 5 m o j-tam# a 3 a o. -a a o i m o h o ht 2 a' ; , ? Q ■ 71- ' :* : •. * -. v ' A- 5 4 f *i/i ..v:?-j.j i>*. if JJX sMifi. A:. A ■x.:' u-im m vAi-ir'- •*•: .=• ; f Wr'ii-i. ''I •■* ?■* . * '■•<••. ., 'El '* .-A . -v . • S rpVi?t£ ' 3fi£&
ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS, &c. 143 It appears, from Page 4, that both N os . 1 and 2 were set 12" too slow for mean time at Drake's Island, in Plymouth Sound, on July the 10th, in the evening; but Mr. Arnold having forgot to wind up N°. 2 when he set it a going, it stopped, and was set a going again by Mr. Bay- ley on the 12th, on which day, when N'. r strewed oh. 30', it strewed 1 h. 23' 45"; and Mr. Bay ley remarks, that this Watch was 53' 4 5'', 4 too fast for mean time at Drake's Island on the /3th at noon.-The several rates of going, mentioned on Page 4, were allowed, until our arrival at the Cape of Good Hope. 1772. 1 ime b No. 1. v Watch No. z. Altitude of the m l.l. Longitude We By No. 1. st of Drake's Island. By No. z. Latitude of the Ship N. Ther c. morn. D. 3 O q c cr H ' " H ' " 0 / 0 / // 0 ' " D a July 15. 20 I 194 20 55 30 33 4 i 2 25 51 2 21 O 47 4 Z 64 62 3 n -16. Noon. 63 35 47 29I 65 64 6 3 42 ? 6 57 59 i 17 2 2-4 2 52 3 2 44 9 47 1 - 65? 62 4 ? -- 17. Noon. 64 28 46 26'- 66 63 h -- 18. [9 21 50 20 16 7f 25 6 3 38 54 3 25 9 45 35 62s 65 3 to 32 34 56 36 I 2 i 1 32 45 63 15 A- r 42 22 3 0 - 1 9. Noon. 65 14 <-5 19 66 64 D -- 20. Noon. 66 26 43 55 $ 64 67 <? - 21. Noon. 66 40 43 29 J 65 67 6 23 55 7 r8 7 i i 3 32 4 19 37 i 3 56 25I 43 26 62 65 3 19 18 41s 20 12 51 | 2 3 *5 4 39 * 3 $ 4 13 25? 43 4 ° 61 65 3 8 - 22. Noon. 66 20 43 37 k 66 66 18 44 50s 19 38 5 §I 16 18-4 5 25 52-*- 4 56 0 42 36 6.3 67 3 V 23. Noon. 67 29 42 16s 65 68 ? - 24. Noon. 69 29 40 03* 66f 67 6 3 ° 5 1 ! 7 25 oj 13 16 7 34 30 7 0 24 39 32 66 67 3 T? -- 25. Noon. 71 40 37 4 ©t 6 16 59 7 11 10 16 19 8 57 42 8 20 43 37 13 67 67 3 O -- 26. Noon. 73 34 35 3 lf 7 l 72 634 6 57 1 6 \ ! 9 274 10 8 33 9 28 42 35 ii-t 3 v - 27. Noon. 75 9 33 43 7 i 72 5 6 16 38 7 ro 514 r6 57 ^ 10 58 10 10 15 9 33 23 7 i 72 3 20 3 41 20 57 54 i 20 35 t 11 37 45 10 52 54 33 6 ;°i 71 3 I to 00 Noon. 75 5 ° 32 48 74 74 i 5 45 40 6 39 53 24 134 12 22 55f 11 36 371 32 40 I 73 f 74 3 d cr; 1 r* 1 he l ime-keepers were carried on shore at Fonchial, on the island of Madeira, and compared with the Clock by which the times of equal altitudes had been noted, (See page 6.) from whence I find, that N 1 made the difference of Longitude, between Drake's Island, and the above-mentioned place, 12 0 29' 16'', and N °. 2 made it 110 37 ' 57 " , that is 16° 45' 23"!, and 15 0 54 4 f West of Greenwich. G Aug. 2. Noon. 75 23 32 o.V 73 72 20 59 35 21 53 2 j -4 34 324 12 52 22f " 52 45 i 30 0 73 74 i 4 " 3 Noon. 77 24 29 43 u 75 73 6 11 51 7 5 4^f -8 4 T 13 5 52 u 55 9 29 25 /2| 72 5 <f - 4 Noon. 78 11 28 40* 74 73 4 25 44 5 19 39i 41 40s 13 58 30 12 47 58 28 29 74 l 73 2
^r 1 +o kx O 144 astronomical observations 1772. $ Aug. 4 L - 5 V ? h o D $ L n 9- 10, u, is- 16. 18. 19. 2 1 . 22 - 2 Z- 24. 25 ' 26, 27, 28, F Sept. i Time by Watch. No. 1. j No. 2. Altitude of the Ct'sL.L. Longitude We By No. 1. H of Drake's Island. By No. 2. Latitude of the ShipN. Ther c. morns, D. 2 O O O ST H ' " H " 0 / 0 " 0 " 0 4 42 54 37 5 1 4 28 29 74! 73 4 4 53 13 35 37 ! 13 52 15 28 29 74! 73 2 6 50 28 10 i°§ 28 25 74 73 4 Noon. 78 42 27 5 3 TO- 74 73 5 22 41I 29 18| 27 31 ° 74 73 5 5 52 53 * 22 384 H 1 5 45 27 3 °s- 74 73 4 Noon. 80 12 26 6! 74 73 20 44 13I 21 38 8 28 48! *4 44 371 t 0 8 16 2 14 5 1 2 3 '! 77 76s 6 20 i5 21 21 10 41 33 204 0 14 30 2 10 4 2 4 77 78 6 N oon. 83 47 * i 59 78 78! 3 26 41 § 38 214 1 5 5 Ar 77 ! 78 3 4 2 52! 4 38 H 34 264 0 24 57 2 0 51 1 55 3
ON BOARD THE ADVENTURE 145 1772. Time b No. t Watch No. 2. Altitude of the ©'s L. L. Longitude We By No. 1. I of Drake's Island By No. 2. Latitude of the Ship N. Them c. 10ms. D. 2! p O H ' " H 0 0 0 ' O / cr K Sept. 2. Noon. 83 33 I 23 A 78 78 s n - - 3 - Noon. 83 32I I of 77 77 i 19 26 28 20 22 1 18 6A 3 29 51 O 58 3 0 53 77 77 6 ? - - 4. Noon. 83 45 O 5 1 77 \ 77 3 0 58-" 26 47 444 West. O 49 76k 77 6 3 30 5 8 t 4 35 40 23 t 3 46 21 1 14 9 O 49 76 77 6 b - 5 - Noon. 84 13 O 564 77 772 3 22 26 42 39 t 46 f O 55 77 76s 3 3 43 *9 4 39 I2i 37 22 3 50 1 19 45 O 55 77 76s 6 5 4 i 22 7 59 70 10 - Altitude of ) sL. L. O 5 i 76 75 f -9 34 3 20 3 ° 12 20 3 2 § 3 6 30 0 27 6 O 40 76 77 6 0 - - 6. Noon. 84 15 O 354 762 76 4 18 59 5 *5 *5 27 20f 2 45 24 0 16 25 O 3 i 77 76 6 r> - - 7 - Noon. 84 25 O 2 34 76s 76 South. 20 11 42 21 8 *7 29 564 3 0 36 0 30 5 1 0 11 76 75 6 9 - - 8. Noon. 84 6 0 18 76 75 i 4 8 6^ 5 4 43 a 30 354 3 32 33 1 2 16 0 20 76 75 6 20 632 21 3 I 2 § 27 56 A 3 55 6 1 24 '5 0 5 ° 76 76 6 L - - 9 - Noon. 83 52 0 544 76 7 6 f 5 >6 421 6 13 25 14 124 4 18 22 z 1 46 7\ 1 0 76 751 6 "4 - - 10. Noon. 58 83 12 1 57 1 76 75 i 529; 5 59 l 9 31 5 34 ioz 3 0 15 2 7 75 74 6 '9 53 34 20 50 25 22 19 6 21 19^ 3 45 3 1 2 49 75 74 3 ? - - 11. Noon. 56 82 33 2 59 r 76 76 4 43 28 5 39 24 39 1 6 44 45 4 8 3 ° 3 10 6 h - - 12.. Noon. 81 45 ! I 36 4 104 76 754 4 50 5 47 10 23 344 1 7 20 4 58 45 4 20 76 75 6 Q - - i 3 - Pocket 0 54 11 79 2 1 Watch. 1 55 15 66 54 $ 5 5 4 32 32 5 29 33 28 474 8 37 36 5 56 36 5 15 76 75 3 J> - 14. Noon. 80 12 38 46 6 29s 75 751 5 7 to 6 4 34 21 44 9 7 0 15 6 41 3 F - 15 - Noon. 78 55 8 8 93 75 75 21 940 22 7 244 36 1 9 11 0 0 *9 3 ° 9 26 4 s - - 16. Pocket 1 19 23 74 20! 37 Watch. 2 26 2 60 4 / * 9 CO O O'i O 6 24 33 " 17 334 11 20 14 8 40 55 9 52 '3 73 i 3 21 24 24 22 22 25 39 5 t 11 45 27 9 7 3 10 47 73 i 73 4 3 > - 17. Noon. ; 6 5 i . 11 04 75 73 r 21 5 14 22 3 19 33 48 12 21 5 9 40 34 12 12 75 74 Z ? - - 18 Noon. 26 7 5 49 12 26I 75 74 20 28 28 2 1 42 H 3 f 13 13 53 10 17 3 '3 48 | 73 72 1 5 h - 19. Noon. 74 34 >4 4t 74 73 9 S 2 29 '4 54 15 19 20 15 5 8 1 i 4 >5 20 24 A 13 54 -5 11 10 10 15 20 6
x 4 6 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS I 1772. Time by No. i. Watch No. r. Altitude of the L. L. Longitude We By No. 1. I of Drake's Island By No. 2. Latitude of the Ship 8. Them c. 90ms. D. H ' " H 0 ' 0 O 0 0 Sept. 20. Noon. 73 26 15 354 734 73 21 14 54 22 13 11 33 394 *4 40 3° 11 50 0 16 56 J> 21. Noon. 72 16 17 194 734 73 20 38 59 21 37 17I 24 4 2 4 15 5 45 12 '5 0 18 24 20 52 42s 27 434 18 254 23 *9 37 16 74 18 254 s 22. Noon. 7i 9 18 39i 73 724 2i 32 485 >2 3 1 12 36 354 *5 35 3° 12 42 5i *9 54 8 23- Noon. 7° 03 20 64 73- 72 21 21 14 22 19 49 33 28 A *5 57 45 >3 4 27 21 *9 Pocket Watch. to 12 41 7 52 l 3 50 65 58 49 21 30 V --- 24. Noon. 69 5 21 284 72 724 ¥ 25- Noon. 68 6 22 504 7* 7*4 20 32 47I 21 30 *3* 21 *74 17 20 7 14 3 9 23 59 T? - 26. Noon. 67 7 2$ 24 124 72 724 20 4 21 21 0 24 15 I4 t *7 7 12 -3 i5 24 30 O -- - 27. Noon. 67 3 16 56 24 424 72 727 20 9 43 2 I 5 36 16 46-rV 45 l 3 10 1 25 18 7* 7*i D 28. Noon. 66 38 25 284 20 16 01 2 I 12 1 l 9 64 16 4 16 12 16 0 26 4 $ 29. Noon. 66 16 s 26 *34 7* 7*4 4 33 10 5 29 13i 32 24 15 24 0 II 35 0 26 16 8 30. Noon. 65 554 26 S 3 4 * * * 8 7*4 7* 5 20 52 6 17 8 i9 254 12 57 45 9 9 0 27 54 *9 37 35 20 33 44t 14 55 70 704 % Oct. I. Noon. 65 52 27 25 7* 7*4 4 35 34 5 31 56 27 484 x 1 8 25 7 17 45 27 27 65 67 19 21 22\ 20 17 *5i 12 214 10 43 35 6 43 16 27 29 S -- 2. Noon. 66 7 27 33t 70 69 5 33 39 6 29 16 14 94 9 58 54 5 53 3° 27 40 66 65 80 26- 5 s L. L. 27 424 65 65 h -_, 3- Noon. 66 0 6 28 4 66 664 5 24 59* 6 20 Z6 14 374 8 *5 10 4 -5 28 10 624 66 O 4- Noon. 65 29 46 26 28 584 5 0 44 5 55 47 17 48xV 5 27 1 0 29 6 66 64 D Noon. 65 50 29 0 4 9 il 27 46-5- 4 17 45 28 5* 63 57 z p o o v 4 3 3 3 5 3 4 4 3 4 4 3 4 3 6 4 4 4 4 Here Mr. Bay ley remarks, that the Watch (No. 2.) began to go very irregularly, from what cause he could not tell; and on this account he left off computing the Longitude of the ship from it.
O ON BOARD THE ADVENTURE *47 9 ? S O 9 L n r v 9 s "4 ? h O 3) 9 S 1772. Time by Watch, No. i. Altitude of the ©'" L-L. Longitude West of Drake's Iiland. Latitude of the Ship S. Barometer. Thet c. morns D. 2 p 0 Remarks. H ' " 0 0 ' 'f O ' 1 1 s Oct. 6. Noon. 65 3i 29 3 2 f 64 61 20 0 38 26 46s 4 OS 00 3 1 0 63 59 3 •- - 7. Noon. 64 18 3i I 8-ry 64 59 5 28 33 11 22-V 4 52 51 3 1 34 64 58 3 ■... 8. Noon. 63 i7 32 42 64 59 20 20 8 31 5 7 A 3 25 34 33 40 64 58 5 - 9. Noon. 62 30 33 52s 64 59 -10. Noon. 62 17 34 28s 64 61 4 54 5 8 >5 26s 0 53 16 34 34 64 63 6 -11. Noon. 62 27 34 4i 66 59 East. 4 33 27 18 58| 0 21 49 34 44 64 61 6 18 41 53 15 54t 0 40 33 34 45 63 58 6 - 12. Noon. 62 4i 34 49 t 66 65 4 59 16 *3 23 0 56 31 34 5i 65 64 3 *3- Noon. 62 44 35 9 29,8 64 6.5 -14. Noon. 62 46 35 2 9 t 29,9 65 60 18 55 49 23 38s 5 49 27 , 35 33 64 62 5 - 15. Noon. 62 46 35 33 64 61 Back Observation. 4 12 38s 18 375 6 44 7 35 32 6 18 41 4| 23 15s 8 42 36 35 18 6 -16. Noon. 63 46 35 65 624 o>. 00 19 28s l 1 3 54 35 3 6.3 57 3 -- 17. Noon. 64 25 34 57i 63 59 -18. Noon. 65 11 34 324 29,96 63 59 3 4i 15 J9 ot i4 47 0 34 39 3 •- 19. Noon. 65 43 34 2 It 29 >97 64 59 3 53 3 8 16 9 r -5 19 0 34 24 4 18 26 19 26 5 24 15 34 0 34 37 4 -- 20. Noon. 65 4i 34 454 29,9 64 59 17 7 6 11 5t l5 41 0 35 12 29,9 62 54 5 Meridian 1 Altitude. J 43 23s " 's U. L. 35 i8i -21. Noon. 6Z "7 35 3i4 30,2 65 59 -- 22. Noon. 64 20 3 6 49 29,8 65 59 2 3- Noon. 64 20 37 10 ? - 9'9 64 59 - 24. Noon. 65 12 36 384 30,1 62 57 3 54 33 *3 ^JLI 20 9 18 36 29 29,9 62 54 6 - 25. Noon. 66 45 35 26 30,2 604 564 3 31 22 16 22t 21 56 24 35 l 9 30,0 6 1 57 6 - 26. Noon. 67 49 34 43 [3 0,0 61 58* 3 6 11 20 46 23 0 9 34 35 ZO,o 60 56 4 27. Noon. 69 6 33 464 30,0 64 61 3 3i 30 14 464 24 6 4 33 464 30,0 60 564 6 - 28. Noon. 69 34 33 38 30,0 64 624 3 12 45 18 24 57 J 5 33 44 29.9 62 594 3
astronomical observations 1772. TimebyNo.i. Altitude of the S's L. L. Longitude from the Cape. Latitude of the Ship S. H ' " 0 ' O ' " 0 ' % Oct. 29 , O Nov. 22 . U Dec. 3 ? - 4 22 Barometer. C. D. Remarks. Anchored in Table Bay; and on November 4 th, Mr. Bayley compared the watch No. i. with the clock C, and continued to do so every day until the 14 th, from which comparisons he computed that it was then losing at the rate of 20 ", 3 a day on mean solar time; and that when it was compared with the clock on November the 4 th, it was 1 h. 49 ' too flow for mean time at the Cape of Good Hope : Consequently, allowing the rate it went at, when at Greenwich, this watch will make the Cape of Good Hope 27 0 z/4- E. of Drake's Island in Plymouth Sound; or, allowing Drake's Island to lie in 4 0 i 6'4 West, 23 ° 2 i'f East of Greenwich; that is, 4 ° 58 'j more than the Observations of MelTrs. Mason and Dixon make it. The watch No. 2 . went so imperfectly, for some time before our arrival at this place, that I apprehend it will be quite unnecessary to make any computations of its rate of going at the Cape, or the longitude shewn by it. It stopped entirely before we left the place. We sailed out of Table Bay, and at noon Mr. Bayley computed that the watch was 1 h. 55 ' 12^,6 too flow for mean time at the Cape of Good Elope; on which supposition, and that its rate of going is as above determined, the longitude of the ship will be computed in future. l 7 42 18 39 §6 24 9 Noon. Noon. 3 3° 81 Noon. Noon. Noon. 3 17 8 ^ 3 35 37 Noon. 2 21 42 Noon. 3 45 37 Noon. Noon. 15 28 46 Noon. Noon. 3 r 55 17 21 49 Noon. *5 .9 55 Meridian , Altitude. ] 3 45 r Noon. 3 112 Noon. 37 28 48 W 52 w. oW. 1 42 43 W, o 24 6 W 18 E. o 14 34 2 54 4 E. iE. 6 15 45 E 2's U. L. 7 33 3° E * 11 26 48 E. 55 5 67 63 3 66 62 3 66 60 4 66 § 53 4 6 4 59 6Z 52 62 55 63 52 4 57 46 4 55f 45 54 42 6 53f 46 5°i 35 4 49 42 49 34 48 3 J t 6 49 35 47 33 4 44 Zl 3 44 3 of 3 44 3H 3 45 34 45 3'4 4 45 3*4
ON BOARD THE ADVENTURE 149 1772. F Dec. 22 L -23, h 24. 26. O - 27, F -29 L - Zo 1773* h Jan. 2, O 8 , 9 10, 11 12 13 I 4 , HmebyNo. 1 , H ' 15 34 16 Noon. 16 59 18s Noon. Noon. 3 34 32 4 22 o Noon. Noon. Noon. 2 21 14 Noon. 3 9 3 5 4 20 Meridian) Altitude. I Noon. 9 53 0 n 7 5 14 lo 51 14 36 46 16 39 28 Noon, 15 24 46 7 16 41 9 "7 30 M 49 39 Noon. 62719 8 7 IS 9 16 5 1 32 204 Meridian 1 Altitude, i 16 25 7 7 29 18 9 21 24 13 39 22 Noon. 1 57 42 Noon. 16 46 6 Noon. 23 014 284 "9 33 Altitude of the 0's L. L. 23 57 35 56 54 17 12 54 53 53 49* 5 1 334 44 40 5 2-' 8 r 46 49 34 32 41 53 29 53 51 48 11 14 29 51 21 46 SO 19 50 43 49 49 27 27 59 22 174 15I I 4 t 304 : 59 59 30 8 -.-' -5 34 21 18 34 14 30 3 1 46 47 13 47 23 46 33 47 Longitude Fast of the Cape. 13 44 15 13 37 0 8 29 314 8 23 21 West. 1 12 51 7 23 27 7 26 15 r>'s u. L. Pocket Watch. East. 9 24 54 9 3° 3° 9 47 40 13 47 o Pocket ? Watch. ) 16 35 46 29,4 32 29,4 46 32 2 9,5 47 35 29,1 49 33 29 ct 5 50 34 29,1 47 32 29,3 47 29,55 46 3 1 29,5 46 3 i 29,48 46 33 Remarks. Very goodi Ditto. Ditto. Hazy, Ditto. Ditto. 7 Ditto. Very hazy. 6 4 Hazy. Ship's course E. by 8. true, five miles an hour. Ditto. Ditto. Ditto. Very clear, t Ship's true course E. S. E. f E. distance t run, 10s miles between the Observations, 25 29,1 45 33 3 27 29,1 45 33 4 30 29,1 47 33 i 3 36 29,0 50 34 13 28,95 45 32 4 28,91 45 13211 4IPretty clear. 29,0747 I35 I |Good. Correct course S. S. E. 3 miles an hour. Course, &c. as before. IO 29,1 46 33 4 44 4 29,2 48 3 2 l 4 22 13 29,3 47 33 3 14 29,35 50 35 12 29,32 49 34 5 134 29,4 49 34 02 29,3 46 32I 3 59 * 29,25 49 35 l Good. Good;
i'5° ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS 1773 - u Jan. 14. $ Feb. 2 TimebyNo.i. Altitude o( the Q's L. L. H ' " O / 14. 2 48 16 16 48A l 5 39 39 i 26 244 15- Noon. 47 15 16. Noon. 46 7 2 22 1 19 2 5 to 17 - Noon. 43 53 : hO O w| - 25 7 \ 18. Noon. 44 16: 1 14 40 26 2" : 15 54 59 2 7 t 5 t : 19. Noon. 45 3 2 20. 0 57 84 2 7 254 16 28 45 3 1 3 °t 21. 4 46 24 21 104 22. Noon. 47 48 14 16 38 18 44 23. Noon. 49 06 24. Noon. 50 29 : 0 17 3 oi 28 254: 2 39 7 9 144 : 26. 15 55 0 33 i 54 27. Noon. 5 i 38 0 47 38 22 6A 15 24 19 21 16 28. Noon. 53 20 29. Noon. 55 8 : 3 °- 15 10 11 31 "-J 3 1 - 8 0 53 55 2 9 5 8 49 46 14 58 34 29 49 i 2. 7 53 2 7 56 24 9 20 21 47 27 0 39 414 15 43 ^ 1326 1 16 424 5 35 55 53 39 6 44 29 57 3 2 3 - 14 59 36 3 ° 594 4- Noon. 56 38 0 57 40; 13 5 14 45 46 28 6i 5 Noon. 56 3 ° e-o 0 or O 18 544 $ - 13 40 19 Noon. o 19 36 Noon. 18 46s 54 Longitude East of the Cape. 21 38 284 21 52 25 21 35 30 21 23 39 21 37 464 22 7 9 22 37 IOf 23 29 30 23 54 4 ' 25 58 3 32 15 9 32 23 31 33 45 *5 34 3 21 34 33 2 7 40 7 54 Pocket j Watch. 1 40 35 22 Pocket Watch. 43 7 34 44 8 4 Pocket? Watch, j 42 56 33 Latitude of the Ship South. 63 57 6 3 37 63 35 64 32 64 58 66 34 67 2 '5 58 65 38 64 45 64 2 9r 63 45 62 57 ! 28 - 33 + 60 25 60 02-4 58 234 58 5 58 I 56 44 56 294 56 12 55 3 51 10 50 48 49 10 } 48 32 48 45 42 23 48 42 12 52-i 42 2 I 44 43 J 34 45 58 27 Barometer, Them c. oms. D. 29,2 47 33 29,05 49 34 29,05 5 ° 37 29,0 49 35 29,02 48 33 28,9 47 324 28,9 46 33 28,95 46 33 28,9 45 3 2 4 28,95 46 33 28,85 47 34 28,7 45 324 29,0 46 334 28.75 47 344 29,25 49 34 29,25 474 34 29,1 47 35 29,13 46 35 29,2 48 33 29,2 48 33 28,75 454 33 - 29,0 47 35 29,1 47 33 29,5 48 36 29,5 48 36 29,55 48 37 29,55 44 38 Remarks. Good. Ditto. Ditto. Hazy. 6 Hazy. Very hazy. Bad horizon. 3 Ditto, and high sea. Good. 3 A. little hazy. Good. 6 Flying clouds. Good. Hazy. Bad horizon, and a high sea. 3 Very good: Ditto. Hazy, and a great sea. 6 Very good. r Ship s true courie north, at ; t miles an hour. I 30,0 I 49 i 4 i | 51 Very good. j The altitudes put down are correct altitudes of the o '5 center. 30,15 30,1 5 * 44 5 5 i 43 6 The altitudes are of the rected. Very good. Ditto, ©'s center, cor- ts> VD CO 50 43 4 29,7 49 43 3 29,55 5 i 40 6 29,5 5 2 4 i 4 29,6 49 40-1 6 29,45 5 o 43 6 29,8 52 44 29,85 48 42 6 Good. Clear and good horizon. Very good. Hazy. Good.
"=> "o " ^ o ON BOARD THE ADVENTURE. rZr r 773 - V ? Q 8 U 11 . 12 , 14, 15 17 18, *9 20 . 21 22 . 2 3 ' 24 25 27 . 28. Finis byNo. 1. Altitude of the m l. l, Longitude East of the Cape. H L March 3 "4 ? >■ b - O 5 - 6 . 13 33 16 Noon. 12 48 29 Noon. 12 53 49 Noon. 2t 23 22 *3 9 3 i Noon. 14 27 45 -3 33 9 Noon. 2 33 44 4 ir 16 11 18 29 Noon. 10 44 42 Noon. 21 42 521 13 11 7 Noon. 22 10 35I 11 56 6 Noon. 11 46 24 Noon. 20 19 32 10 28 55 9 26 44 Noon. 1 9 3 i 3 1 9 52 48 19 29 37 8 40 53 t Noon. 18 17 34 Regulus. 9 45 16 Noon. 9 4 36 Noon. 18 15 43 8 3 ? 554 Noon. 18 17 14 Latitude of the Ship South. u 0 0 ' 7 l 9 394 - 48 47 9 50 23 54 7 18 49 524 12 39 t 49 10 50 00 53 22 50 284 16 OOi 53 48 iof 51 co 5 i 01 58 52 39 i 33 0 1 Z T 4 i 52 52 47 22 22 | 60 57 21 52 10 50 7 63 52 23 34 53 f 39 00 52 27 30 35 A 70 39 6 52 54 48 26 52 5 24 40 12 Pocket ? 52 + 7 41 Watch. ! 35 *5 "4 OO 37 27 52 20 48 19 52 16 12 4 t 82 16 CO ^j- 52 18 48 00 52 14 13 02 § 83 Z 3 52 9 34 564 86 10 30 52 20 47 r 3 52 I 7 t 5 10 : 87 57 42 52 16 26 84 88 57 42 52 9 47 1 ^2 7 6 2 b 344 92 22 28 z 52 47 47 5 5 2 4 if r 7 384 94 6 48 51 35 17 9 t 96 9 39 51 21 12 3 104 3 30 50 29 47 15 50 24 1 v 5°4 105 56 49 50 25 18 20 107 25 21 49 24 10 52 T 114 19 34 45 56 11 2 74 M 5 24 25 45 24 5 i 20 44 48 21 45 116 25 3 ° 44 32 32 40 Meridian ) Altitude, ) 44 21 24 4 i 4 118 18 48 44 08 51 42 44 3 t 19 54 t 121 44 30 43 55 5 1 24 43 57 i 16 37 * 123 29 21 43 54 16 3 124 23 3 4 j 46 5 l 13 43 46s 1 + 39 i 125 12 24 13 47 Barometer. Therr c. nomSt D. No.ofObs. Remarks. 29,6 49 39 6 29,4 51 40 Good. 29,15 51 40 4 28,9 52 42 Good. 29,6 47 37 6 . I * 29,5 52 39 r Good. 29,6 5 ° 38 6 29,65 47 37 6 29,7 50 39 Good. 20,65 44 36 4 28,9546 37 6 29 , 05 i 46 40 Good. r Ship's course at right angles to the Sun's bearing at the first Observation. 29,1 29,05 2 9>5 29,6 29,5548 28,35 42 49 5 i 53 f 28.45 28,3 28.5 2 9'35 29.45 29,65 2 9,95 29.2 29,45 29.3 29,55 29.5 2 9,7 29,65 49 5 i 51 53 54 52 53 49 53 55 54 53 54 55 57 54 29,85(59 29,75 29.8 29.6 29,45 29.7 29,75 29.9 59 58 58 5 " a" 59 59 36 36s 40 4 1 38 39 41 4 if 40 43 4 1 45 40 43 43 43 £ 54 47 52 49 5 i 52 56 53 52 5 i i 51 52 f 5 4 i 3 4 Good. 4 Bad horizon. Good. Good. 4 Good. Good. K r
I ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS, l 7J3- © March 7 D - 8, "? - 9 11 U -- ¥ - v -- 15 12 U - h - o - 3 - L - n - 16 17 18 19 20 . 21 2Z 24 2-5 26 27 Time by No. I. Altitude of the W's L. L. H 9 i5 27 Noon. Noon. 17 26 33 9 11 21 Noon. Noon. Noon. 17 42 134 7 34 51 Noon. 8 2 6 43 Noon. 7 37 34 Noon. 8 5 52 Noon. 7 39 19 Noon. *7 i9 43 Noon. 6 58 25 8 3° 594 9 3 8 n 11 25 40 Noon. 7 34 3 1 Noon. 17 o 39 7 22 o Noon. 16 49 51 7 8 19 Noon. 24 494 50 55 50 274 20 11 26 154 50 1 49 35 48 31 14 oif 9 i5 '48 194 18 464 49 20 10 5s 5° 19 15 I7rV !5o 56 11 23 50 31 14 37i 50 19 5 244 [24 26s 35 39 ,'47 46 >49 2 if 15 1 of >4 8 34 10 57 i3 5 8 4 |47 26 10 51 12 32 s >46 544 Longitude East of the Cape. Latitude of the Ship South. 0 ' 0 126 33 37 43 45 43 4°t 43 45t 129 1 31 43 42 13° 22 49 43 22 Dip 2 0 43 22s Dip 2 0 43 24! 43 20f 130 3 8 434 43 23 I 3 I 23 53 43 34 43 8 f I 3 I 32 3° 42 10 4i 44t I3 1 57 8 40 47 40 21* *3* 33 55 39 24 39 21 i33 21 6 39 20 39 22f 133 1 57 41 39 20 39 16s 13 6 7 30 39 32 138 32 45 3 8 55 } 3 8 5 8 3 8 57* 140 25 10 39 17 39 2 of 141 4 45 39 26 142 14 41 39 5^ 40 s; 143 11 3i 40 12 144 0 6 40 13 40 14s Baro meter. Them c. ioms. ' 29,9 59 54i 29,9 59 55 30,0 59 57 30,i 57 54 30A5 64 56 29'95 62 57 30,0 65 58 29,5 61 51 29'7 65 52 29,65 64 53 29-7 64 53 29,8 64 54i 29,85 62 53 29'95 65 544 30,15 63 57 30,05 64 59 30,15 65 60 30,1 66 61 30,15 63 56 30,15 65 594 30,1 64 57 30,1 Remarks. Good. A little hazy. ^ 5 The 8. Point of Van Die X man's Land, N. 5 miles. , J At anchor off the enterance 0 I of Adventure Bay. t In the Entrance ofl i Adventure Bay. t In the bottom of Ad- i venture Bay. s At the entrance of! t Adventure Bay. g f Off the entrance of! 0 l Adventure Bay. 6 | Off Van Dieman's L. c About four or five 1 leagues off shore. . f Van Dieman's Land from 4 I S. W. to N. W. \ W. c St. Patrick's Head, i W. N. W. 4 leagues. 6 J The land bore fromW.S. VV X 2 S. to N. w. by N. s The land bore from S. tc X N. W. by N. 7 leagues. J Saw the land bearing W. S W. 2 W. distance] 1 leagues. A little hazy. 4 ' 6 i t The Sun bore N. E. ' E. at the first Observation ; i and the ship's course was S. by E. 3 miles an hour. 30,05 61 58 30,05 61 5 8 3 3°,i 62 60 30,3 63 60 6 30,25 65 61 6 30,25 63 6 if 3°,35 62 59 6 30,45 66 6 i| 6 30,5 65 61 /
Cy ^ 40C ^ 0 nT*+0 ON BOARD THE ADVENTURE. -53 * 773 - March 2 7 -28, 29 3 a April 2 4 ic, 20, Time by Altitude Longitude Latitude of Thermoms. 2! of the ' East of the the Ship Baro- ©'" L-1- Cape. South. meter. c. D. O Remarks, H ' " O / O ' " O * CT 16 59 51 7 444 I44 21 25 40 16 30,5 63 60 4 Noon. 46 30 40 * 5 t 30,4 66 64 16 13 25 15 28 144 54 21 40 18 30,4 64 62 6 6 59 12 11 571 146 0 24 40 35 30,55 66 61 6 Noon. 45 40 40 42s 30-5 67 64 16 29 11 10 504 146 41 30 40 42 30,45 66 64 5 6 39 16 9 22| 147 48 14 si 7 30,55 67 62 6 Noon. 44 46 41 13 30,45 67 64 16 0 20 [ 4 3 f , 148 40 0 41 17 30,55 65 64 6 92 65 11 5 30 36 25 43 48 "Os bearing. at the first Observation, 4 i 33 ' N. N. E. | E.; ship's course E. f N., at _ the rate of four miles an hour. 8 21 32) 30 494 I 55 16 35 40 46 29>5 68 62 6 s Land 8. of Cape Farewell, in [ New Zealand, N. E. by E.-J E. Noon. 6A 60 s Cape Farewell E. N. E. - E. 43 45 40 414 29,6 [ Rocky Point S. by E. j E. l 5 35 2z 12 IOf T 55 42 34 40 32 29,6 29,65 63 64 60 63 6 6 Off Cape Farewell, t In the entrance of 6 9 44 9 594 156 42 28 40 18 I Cook's Straits. Noon. 43 M 40 i6f t Stephens's I siandS. E. 1 distant 4 or 5 leagues. <5 17 5 if H 74 156 58 6 40 20 29,8 66z 63 6 f Stephens's Island 8. E. by 8. [and Blind Bay 8. W. by S. 5 59 5^2 9 194 *57 34 H 4 o 33 29,8 66 63 6 In Cook's Straits. Noon. 42 48 s 40 52 s [ In Admiralty Bay. 15 32 24 66 6i j Point Jacklon S. E. § 10 34 157 3 1 47 40 55 30,0 6 • IE. about 3 leagues dist. 66 63 5 Off the entrance into 6 4 32 Noon. 9 * 9 t *57 47 52 41 °3 30,05 6 ! Charlotte's Sound, i In the entrance of • Charlotte's Sound. 65 6iz 42 1 5 k 41 ° 3 t 30,15 fN OO N O or 9 h. 39 ' 24'' apparent time ; end of the lunar eclipse. '031 4, or 9 h. 42 '26' apparent time; the 5 was clear of the penumbra. 6 22 2z 12 15-^- 158 1 9 4 i 5 t '30,1 66 52 8 In Q.Charlotte's Sound, Noon. 40 46s 41 5 t 29,85 56 56 j Ditto. Mr. Bayley compared the Watch with the Astronomical Clock, by which the times of equal altitudes of the Sun had been noted, (See p. 47.) and it appears from thence, that the Watch was 13 h. 16' 23",4 too stow for mean time that day at noon, at Queen Charlotte's Sound. Mr. Bayley found it too stow for mean time at the Cape of Good Hope, on o, November 22, 1772, at noon, by 1 h. 55' 1 2", 6 ; therefore, allowing it to have lost ever since, at the rate it was then going, (20",3 a day) it ought to be too slow for mean time at the Cape, on April the 20th, 1773, at noon, by 2 h. 45' 28^,5 j and of course it will make the difference of Longitude between this place and the Cape of Good Hope 157 0 43" 43T, or 176° 6" 58"! between.this place and Greenwich.
astronomical observations, If we compute all the way from England, fit the rate it was going at Greenwich, it will make this place 1990 59'39" East of Drake's Island, in Plymouth Sound, or 19 5 0 43' 3 ["f East of Greenwich. June 7 th we left Queen Charlotte's Sound ; on which day, at noon, Mr. Bay ley cal culates that the Watch was 13 h. 36' 58",5 too stow for mean time at that place; on which supposition, and that its rate of going was losing 25",66 a day on mean time, (See p. 48.) he computed the following longitudes of the (hip. He moreover supposes, that the true Longitude of Queen Charlotte's Sound is 173 0 56'30" East, which is what his Observations, made there this time, gave it. 1 77 3* Time by No, 1. Altitude of the V'r L. L. Longitude East of Greenwich. Latitude of the Ship South. Barometer. Th err c. D. *z\ 0 0 Remarks. H ' " O ' 0 ' " 0 " r June 7. 6 29 16 6 26s i74 23 3 4 l 4°l 30,1 59 59i 6 L - 9- 6 11 48 5 41 179 O 4f 43 49f 29,6 59 53 6 h - 12. 7 "5 r8z 13 i4r 184 31 24 46 17 29'9S 60 50 6 v - 14. Noon. 19 50: 46 43s 29,6 64 48 z A little hazy. $ - 15. Noon. "9 45 46 45i 29,75 64 +9 Good. 12 29 20 9 18 'J 185 22 55 46 Z1 29,8 60 48 6 E --17. Noon. 20 6 46 194 29,8 59 49 Good. ? -18. Noon. 20 35 45 494 29,95 59! 49 Good. 5 57 5 7 4 T i 18 g 40 ^0 45 1 5 30,1 581 471- 6 t A 1 0 N. N. E. at first Observation Ship's 7 19 2 10 12 1 45 * 2 ? 1 course E. N. E. at the rate of 3! miles 10 5 27 20 17 f an hour. J - O N. * E 1. at first Observation. Ship's E -- ig. 8 38 32 21 34 ( 44 3° h course N. E. bv E. k E. at the rate of 0 - 20. 9 38 0 21 24 j three miles an hour. D - 21. 5 54 1 3 67 55 © - 27. Noon. 24 5 : 42 23t 29,35 63 53 Bad horizon. 8 36 44 11 294 197 40 12 42 24 29,4 62 52 5 5 - 28. Noon. 24 8 : 42 24 29,35 64 53 Hazy. 4 37 54 3 49?V I98 24 52 42 40 29,45 62 53 6 $ -29 Noon. 23 49 42 454 29,35 67 53 11 41 56 11 28 A I98 24 54 42 52 29,55 70 52 6 5 30 1 11 117 199 13 12 42 56 29,55 63 5i 6 8 -30 Noon. 23 39 42 591 29,45 63 5 1 5 47 174 14 5 A 201 II 21 43 7 29,7 62 49 6 if. July 1 Noon. 23 36 43 5 i 29,65 63 50 4 38 39 6 2 6 T '- z 202 44 40 43 0 29,8 62 49 6 ? - 2 Noon. 2 3 47 42 59 29,75 64 5 1 X 11 50 32 7 59^-1 202 59 41 43 0 29,85 66 5 ° 6
ON BOARD THE ADVENTURE *55 1773- ¥ July 2. o 6 . 8-7. % ¥ 1? o D F is ¥ O 5 8 . 9- 10. 11. 12 . -3- 15- 16. 17 18. 19. 20 22, 23' 25, 26. rimebyNo.i Altitude of the ©*s L. L. H ' " O ' 4 36 44 6 527 Noon. 2 3 37 11 38 3i4 8 Z2J4 Noon. 22 58 11 24 32 9 394 4 3 2 37 9 20s Noon. 25 1 11 3° 31! 8 43! 4 5 24s 6 43t Noon. 25 55 4 7 344 7 434 6 40 30 23 33 8 34 15 24 27 4 17 50 io 34 Noon. 24 48 11 16 15 7 35f 4 6 34 9 254 * 34 49 13 7 8 13 16 23 1 4 2 34 10 13s Noon. 24 ii 3 40 46 8 4344 Noon. 24 36 3 15 56 6 16 Noon. 25 0 4 3 53 *5 394 : Noon. 27 2 3 33 20s -4 3lf Noon. 28 52 2 48 54! 9 3i4 Noon. 30 53 10 51 59 6 40 i Noon. 3 2 25 10 49 41 7 40 2 34 17 9 74 Noon. 33 47- Noon. 38 26 11 20 48 6 117 2 23 47 9 4"4 Noon. 40 20:: 7 39 19 38 47 9 3 2 36 2619 2 6 507 7 2 t V Noon. 41 26 11 24 54 6 54 ? Longitude East of Greenwich. 204 I 39 204 39 30 20 5 23 34 207 59 8 208 16 25 208 50 6 210 22 54 Pocket 7 Watch, J 212 43 48 213 12 15 21521 13 Pocket ? Watch. J Latitude of the Ship South. 43 9 43 13? 43 17 43 57i 43 47 42 17 42 5 f 41 52 41 21 41 I7f 41 51 41 57 ■ 42 33 42 385 42 43 43 28 43 381 Baro. meter. Thermoncs. I Z o D. 471 53f 5i 501 48 s 6 5 2 6 52s 49 6 5 2 6 52 6 t the fii S. E. 5 2 4 5 514 5i4 6 55 6 Remarks. 217 43 30 43 32 30,0 57 46 43 3°i 30,15 61 47 219 34 33 43 16 30,25 59 47 43 13/ 30.3 59\ 5 it 220 44 37 43 0 30,25 60 55 42 57t 223 39 55 4i 34 2 9-3S 55f 47 41 23 29-4 62 50s 2 26 4 18 39 58 29,6 5°j 45 226 39 42? 29,8 52 44 35 56 38 4 30,2 51 45 37 51t 30,25 61 50s 226 37 45 37 4i 30,35 56 47- 226 36 30? 30,2 61 547 55 10 36 20 30,1 57 55 226 48 45 35 36 30,25 587 54i 35 19* 30,15 62 55 3i 3? 29-75 65 64 12 5 24 36 30 46 29,7 67 64 225 11 30 29 33 29,85 66 62s 29 21-4 29,9 66 64 Pocket ? 46 O N. W. i-W Watch J 29 course N . E. 224 40 8 29 3 29,85 7° 66 58 28 53*3- 30,0 70 68 224 3i 28 34 29-95 70 67 29,65.60 29.8 (67 29,6564 29.9 59 29.9 61 2 9>75 59 2 9j75j6i| 29*85 59 29-6 59i 2 9-55 59 O north £ course E an hour. 2 9-75!59i 29,9 60 20,85 60 29,8 I58 course E. S. E. £ E. Dist,.run 20 miles. 5 6 A high sea; A rough sea. Flying clouds. Very hazy . at second Qbserv. Ship's distance run 9 miles. 6 S s
156 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS 1 77'3 Time by No. 1 Altitude of the L.L. Longitude East of Greenwich. Latitude of the Ship South. Barometer. Them c. 10ms, D. 25 O O O Remarks. H ' ' " O f 0 " 0 D July 26. 2 11 21J 9 *4 225 13 15 28 0 29>95 71 68 6 $ - 27. Noon. 42 37 27 55 % 30,0 7 * 69 I 11 16 54 8 225 13 42 27 5 1 29,9 69 67 6 S- 28. Noon. 43 4 2 7 421 30,1 70 69 -4 - 29. Noon. 43 3 l 27 29 L 30,0 72 70 10 58 47 *3 *4 t 224 12 53 27 20 2 9*95 70 68 4 x -.- ZO. Noon. 44 10 27 3f 30,0 72s 7* 11 ix 56 9 59i 225 13 15 - 26 57 30,0 1l\ 69 6 }} .- 3 1 - Noon. 45 9 26 *9 t 29*75 70s 67 11 13 4 9 5°t 225 46 0 26 10 29,8 7* 671 6 O Aug. 1. 1 56 16 10 33 i 226 48 9 23 28 3°> 1 69 67 6 3) - 2. Noon. 48 45 23 144 30,05 7 o\ 70 1132 2 6 29s 226 42 42 23 5 J 0 * 0 69 685 6 1 34 12 6 4^4 227 2 3 1 22 26 2 9*9 7* 7* 6 $ --- 3- Noon. 50 4 22 io£ 30,15 72 72 21025 15 ioi 227 *7 19 21 34 30,1 72J 7*1 6 N -- 4- Noon. 5* 8 21 22| 30,05 74 75 * 3* 3i 8 22s 228 21 48 20 48 30,0 74 76 6 •4 --> 5* Noon. 52 7 20 39 i 30,15 77 77 1 24 2 8 I Ot 229 21 0 19 54 30,05 77 76 6 Tj -- 7- Noon. 54 28 18 5 x r 30,1 74 7* 3 2 32 27 29ro 226 3 34 18 14 30,* 74 76 6 0 -- 8. Noon. 52 32 18 4r 30,05 75 /6 2 38 28| 21 34 223 5 1 22 17 45 30,1 75 75 6 L - 9- Noon. 56 12 : 17 4i| 30,25 751 75 Hazy. 2 42 50 20 3 7 A 221 47 0 17 25 30,25 ?6z 75 6 3 - 10. Noon. 56 47 17 2Z4 30,25 771 7 8| 2 31 27 16 46 219 52 0 17 *7 30,05 77 77 6 8 - 11. Noon. 57 12 17 164 30,1 77 79 2 48 9 '9 22 2 l8 *7 8 17 12 30,0 77 77 6 4 --. 12. Noon. 57 37 17 10 30,0 771 791 2 0 30; 7 54l 217 4 10 17 14 30,1 77 781 3 ? ' -- *3- Noon. 57 49 17 144 30,1 78 80 2 15 29 10 sz 215 3i 43 17 l 7 30,2 79 79 6 b- 14. Noon. 58 6 *7 *74 30*0 78I 791 12 16 9 9 ii| 214 44 46 *7 20 30.*5 78 771 4 2 11 5°t 7 5 °t 213 46 5° *7 41 30,1 78 781 6 O- -5 Noon. 57 56 *7 4 6 f 30,05 7 8| 80 2 32 37 t 11 464 212 43 15 x 7 48 fT f 3> - 16 Noon. 58 15 -7 46 a - *7 Noon. 58 41 1 7 394 4- 19 Noon, 59 14 x 7 444 Made in Oaid-peha Bay, ¥- - 20 Noon. 59 33i. 1 7 44 T on the N. W. fide of the 11 25 43 2.1 4i 213 5 12 *7 444 6 lesser peninsula of Ota h- - 21 Noon. 59 53i '7 45 heite. 11 47 10 16 5°? 2 13 9 46 *7 44 t b I
ON BOARD THE ADVENTURE >57 Altitude of Longitude Latitude of rhermoms. 2 Time by No. 1. the 0's East of the Ship 6 a to- O Remarks. 1773- L. L. Cjreenwich. South. meter. c. v. O H ' " O ' of" 0 cr 8 Aug. 2 5. Noon. 6l 36 17 244 12 4 55 12 47 t 213 8 6 17 27 6 Point Venus W. 3 or 4 miles. % -26. J he Watch was carried on shore at Point Venus > and on the 27th compared with the Astronomical Clock, by which the times of equal altitudes had been noted : (See page 52 ) from whence I have computed that the Watch was too slow for mean time, at Point Venus, on August the 27th, at noon by 16I1. 48 ' 44' v ,7, and of course it will place Point Venus 39 0 17' 35" to the Eastward of Queen Charlotte's Sound, in New Zealand. By allowin g its Greenwich rate, I find that it makes Point Venus 253 ° 30'36''East of Drake's Island, in Plymouth Sound ; that is, 249 0 14' 2 8" East of Greenwich. Mr. Bayley's computations make the Watch to be losing here at the rate of 46"^ a day, and too slow for meantime, on B August the 21st, at noon, by 16I1. ri'ci"-, on which suppositions, and that the true Lon gitude of Point Venus is 2 io\ 27' 20' 2 Sept. 3. East of Greenwich, he has computed the following Longitudes of the Ship. Noon. 65 284 >6 454 3°"° 77 77 1 h - 4- ©-5. 12 11 12 Noon. 12 1 21 12 8 44 n 52 i 65 5 °k 14 24 12 io| 208 50 50 208 51 42 208 51 16 >6 44 t 30,1 30,1 3°"° 30,0 76 7 H 76 771 76 78s 77 79 6 6 4 In Owharre Harbour, -on the West side of the Island Huaheine, 5 -6. 12 28 n 7 27t 208 51 14 30,0 78 77 6J $ -7. Noon. 66 43 r6 59 t OfftheS. endof Uliatea. 12 13 13 11 174 208 8 39 16 58 30,1 77 k 77 6 V-9. 1 i 5i 43 16 3I 208 22 9 16 454 30,1 79 78 6 1 In Ohamaneno Harbour, on the O - 12. 11 16 55s 23 504 208 9 10 16 45i 30,2 79 80 6 i West side of Uliatea. It-l6. 4 19 14 46 ni 208 17 371 16 47 40,1 77 784 6 ?- 17. Noon. 70 41 16 50s 30,05 78 784 12 11 374 10 584 207 32 19 16 56 3 CO I I Noon. 7° 39 206 17 52 17 15 A 29,9 77 784 12 21 534 9 3 A 17 23 30,1 77 774 3 2 5 11 13 3i4 205 53 27 17 36 29,95 77 k 774 6 0 - 19. Noon. 7° 38s 17 394 29,95 78 784 2 21 51 16 45 204 45 46 '7 55 29,95 77 7 6 4 6 5 -20. Noon. 70 40 203 52 46 l 8 14 30,0 78 8o| 2 23 29 16 424 >8 20 29,95 77 78 6 9 5 A 30,0- 74| 74 2 47 22L 19 4i4 200 0 36 19 22 29,9 754 73 k 6 ? - 24. Noon. /O 47 19 285 30.05 76 74 k 12 37 25 11 43 4 '99 3 45 19 36 30,0 754 724 6 h - 25. Noon. 70 47 19 524 30,05 75 744 0 - 26. 12 42 11 13 56 A >95 910' 20 33 29,9 | 7 1 715 5 s-27. Noon. 70 47 20 39 j- 29,95 72 724 F-28. Noon. 70 46 21 3 A 30,00 72 74 3 53 53 27 43 t 190 10 29 21 25 30,0 74 72 6
i S 8 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS 1773 Time by No. 1 Altitude of the G's L. U Longitude East of Greenwich. Latitude jf the Ship South, Barometer. Them- c. VMS. D. it ' " O 0 " O L Sept. 29. Noon. 70 45 2 I 28; 3°, I 73 72 1 3 7 i3 3 i i8p 13 36 21 2 7 30, >5 72 70 n 30. Noon. 7i 2 5 2 I I I Ar Z0,O 7i 70 ? Oct. x. Noon. 7i 40 21 20f 30,0 70 72 12 4i 59 22 14A 185 33 40 1 1 19 30,0 70 69 h n-, - 2. Noon. 72 20§ 21 2 11 30,05 71-I 714 13 24 9 12 49? 185 6 3 2 2 l 21? 30,05 70 68i 3> ' 4. Noon. 73 6 21 4 30,05 7 2 4 7 2 4- F 5- 13 2 l6 a 17 55 184 41 34 30,05 73 70 L ■- 6. Noon. 73 5if 2 I 5 2 9'95 74 73 6 56 45 66 6f 184 44 9 30,1 7 2 4 7-4 n 7- Noon. 74 16 21 4r 30,0 73 i 714 13 20 2g f 13 264 ^r co 45 2 I 9 3^0 7 ii 71 ? -- 8. Noon. 72 41 22 It 2 9'95 75 714 4 H 46 3i 26 184 49 0 22 21 30,05 73 70 h -- 9- Noon. 73 40 22 25i 3°>° 73 71 3 9 i6z 16 6 183 59 10 22 37 30,0 7 2 4 694 5 22 46s 46 29s 184 2 21 22 40 30,05 73 70 O XO. Noon. 73 43 22 45? 30,05 7i 69 5 19 34 44 40r 182 40 10 2 3 47 30,05 70 67 D - -- II. Noon. 72 57 2 3 53 t 30,0 70 68 3 52 11 24 21? 182 41 O 2 5 7 30,05 7o 074 S - 12. Noon. 7i 43-' 2 5 3 °t 30,1 7i 68 3 Z6 53I 2 4 53 t 180 48 5 2 26 534 30,2 7o4 68 s -- 13- Noon. 70 2 5 2 7 Ut 30,2 70 68 3 26 5i i/ 5"i 180 7 4i 28 24 30,1 70 66 ■It .-- 14. 2 53 2 7 10 474 179 3i 54 2 9 48 30,15 7o 654 ? -- 1 Z- Noon. 68 6 30 IfT 30,2 694 674 6 -- . - 16 Noon. 67 5 3i 384- 30,2 68 66f 5 17 34 41 344 179 36 33 3 2 39 30,15 684 67 O . . ■ " 17. Noon. 66 224 3 2 43-3- 30,2 69 674 14 3 1 2 T 8 394 i79 18 c 3 2 5° 3o,iS 68 654 5 18. Noon. 65 40 33 47 t 30,0 68 67 F __ 19- Noon. 63 54 35 547 69 654 3 39 50 22 164: 179 33 48 37 24 29,65 654 57 a --^ 20. Noon. 62 26 s 37 444 29,65 654 60 13 5 4 2 20 414 - 179 I 2 24 38 6 29,65 65 59 3 44 44 22 45 s- 178 37 5i 38 58 29,6 66 574 % - - 2 I, Noon. 61 26 39 6A 29,25 64 64 to 56 274 45 304 178 0 32 39 10 29,45 65 60 13 4i 344 14 571 177 38 42 39 17 29,45 644 59 2 49 41 10 54 t 4 176 37 0 39 53 . 2 9>55 62 56 ? 22 Noon. 60 39 +0 *54 29,2 63 59 2 o o o cr 6 6 6 2 3 2 xo 6 6 10 6 3 3 6 ! 3 6 6 3 6 6 6 6 3 6 Remarks. At anchor under the N.W. fide of Eaoowe, or Middleburgh: At anchor off the North Point of Tonga Tabu, 1 or Amsterdam. I Flying Clouds. NewZealand fromW. S. W. | S. to N. W. by N. Table Cape due North. Black Head N. W. and Cape Turnagain S, 33 W.
© ■o H .fd +00*!-) © ^ ON BOARD THE ADVENTURE. 159 1773- ? Oct. 22. h-23. O-24. r-25. F-26. 5 -27- V -28. ¥-29. -30. -31. Nov. 1 . D-8. *-9. L-10. V -11. V - 15 . F-16. 8 - 17 . 1;-18. L --19- 6 -20. Altitude Longitude Latitude of thermoms 2; time by No. 1. of the East of the Ship Baro* O j 1 Remarks. & s L. L. Greenwich. South. meter. c. D. Q H " " 0 0 ' 0 ' cr r-" j 11 33 49 t 39 3 8 I 76 30 10 40 30 29,2 65 57 3 s Between Cape Turnagain anc / the Black Head. 12 43 2f 26 584 176 28 21 40 30 29,6 62 58 6 1 Noon. 60 22 - 40 53 t 29-55 64 56 J CapeTurnagainN.N.W,, W. 1 and Flat Point S. W. | W. lo 53 19s 46 36 176 9 37 40 51 29.65 64 554 6 I 1Z 18 26s 20 54 * 176 15 43 40 53 f 29-5 634 55 6 I 1 11 12 5 43 3 Si 175 42 5 i 41 3 ° 2 9-4 64 60 6 i Cape Pallisser W. 8. W. * W. 1 dill. 8 or 9 leagues. '3 4 434 23 34 175 37 §6 41 32 29-5 62 58 6 \ Cape Pallisser due West about 1 9 or 10 leagues. Noon. 59 39 42 18 29,65 62 A little hazy. 4 11 1 26 3 °A 175 2 23 42 55 55 6 Noon. 59 45 42 32 i 29,6 6o 54 f Noon. 60 21 : 42 I 7 t 29,65 6i 56 Hazy. 4 39 39 32 274 174 52 22-j 42 19 29-5 61 53 6 Noon. 60 40 42 18-t 29,25 62 56 3 26 51s r 9 4i4 175 9 39 42 00 29,6 6o 54 6 Noon. 61 28 41 5 ° T 29,6 - A little hazy. 14 30 224 8 37 i 174 48 10 41 48s 59 544 3 Noon. 61 44 41 53 t 29-55 59 60 Noon. 61 26 42 3 j A 29-7 64 64 i 14 18 47 10 ' 5 °i 174 57 32 42 32 29-35 57 55 6 3 24 3f 20 30 175 1 57 41 23 29.5 60 58 6 Noon. 62 59 41 37 t 29,65 61 57 Noon. 63 35 41 207 29-75 60 53 13 27 264 20 2 2 A 174 56 46 41 18 29-65 59 54 6 14 21 40s 11 64 173 59 46 41 38 29,6 59 59 6 Noon. 64 *3 41 374 29,6 54 52 Noon. 66 27 . 39 4 ii 29-75 57 53 Noon. 67 24 39 i 4 29-75 62 63 1 Table Cape 8. W. b. W. and Gable End Foreland N. W, b. N. 2 35 54 14 59 i 176 53 27 29-95 61 57 i 6" Noon. 68 3"i 176 3 8 2 lf 29-95 6if 57 2 -In Tolaga Bay. 282 10 I To 55 24 29,9 6of 56 12 Noon. 68 5*4 38 20 29,8 61 57 ) Off the mouth of Tolaga Bay. 2 19 14 *3 26 9 - 176 56 8 29,8 62 54 6 In Tolaga Bay. Noon. 70 04 38 3if- 29-95 61 64 3 24 534 26 104 176 29 if 39 34 29,8 67 62 s 6 Noon, 69 8 176 8 39 42 s 29,65 68 67 2 53 132 20 9 x 57 39 51 29,8 69 63 6 Noon. 69 6 176 8 39 59 29,65 68 68 12 14 41 33 544 i 7 40 2 29,65 68 69 6 Noon. 68 40 40 39 i 29,55 69 68 Noon, 68 30 : 41 9 9 "T C 29,8 65 56 Very hazy. 1' r
O'T l +0-fi"x " o 3 55 40 Noon. 3 56 27I Noon. 12 49 15 14 14 9 Noon. 1 x 10- 39 Noon. 3 2 56 3 45 13 Noon. 5 " 33 Noon, 5 20 43 15 68 32 68 28 12 69 364 4 i 564 55 3 T 2/4 18 4r 294 68 48 21 524 4 o 4 1 1 7 r 13 - 594 29 69 46 69 47 '74 l 75 5 8 3° 175 22 42 -75 -3 3 -75 5 -5 -73 -7 -9 -73 00 30 -73 27 36 172 53 6 4! 00 M 5r 41 7 41 47 40 58 40 57 40 54i 40 41 42 42 4- 42 42 4 l 57 00 01 57 ^ 4 64 12 Barometer. 29,8 2 9'75 2 9'75 Z0,r 30,X 30.1 30.2 30-25 30.3 30.1 29-95 29-9 29,85 29,85 30.2 Hcrmom8. 0. 66 62 66 62 64 64 62 62 63 64 63 64 65 i 66 £ 63 D. 55 55 54 55 56 56 6i£ 61, 61, 56 56 61 57 \ 60 54 Remarks. g V Cape Turnagain W. N. W, \ distant 7 or 8 leagues. 6 ' g ^ Cape Turnagain N. N. W, £ distant 5 or 6 leagues. j Hazy. 6 I Mr. Bayley compared the watch with the clock, by which the times of equal altitudes! had been noted (fee p. 69.); from whence it appears, that the watch was 15 h. 36' 19",5 too flow for mean time on that day at noon ; and therefore, according to its rate and state with respect to mean time at Point Venus in Otaheite, on August the 31st, the difference of longitude between that place and this will appear to be 37 0 48' 43 " 4 -> that is, it makes this place 172° 38' 46Q E. of Greenwich. If we reckon all the way from England, at the rate it was going when at Greenwich, it will place Queen Charlotte's Sound 235° ^ 4 -r E. of Drake's Island in Plymouth Sound, or 231° 28'4 E. of Greenwich. But farther: Mr. Bayley found this watch too slow for mean time at this place, June the 7th at noon, by 13h. 36" 58",5, and that it was then losing on mean time at the rate of 2 §' ,66 a day j according to which, it should have been too slow for mean time, on Dec. 7th, by only 14I1. 55' 14^,3, instead of 15 h. 36' 19",5; the difference, 41" $",2, - io° 16' i8' / in longitude, is what the watch has erred in half a year. The watch was found now to be losing 44^,924 a day on mean time, and that it was too slow on ? December 15th at noon by 15 h. 42' 17",46. Moreover, in computing the following longitudes of the ffdp, Mr. Bayley has supposed that the longitude c " ~ ' ' ' ' -'''' -4 -6 47 z 028 Noon. >2 43 3Qj Noon. -4 4- 28 y -r J s . - J J - - . - .J - I I j - ' - ^ I I I Noon. 68 32 : 44 38^30,2 664 62 1 Hazy. 3 27 if " ' ' ^ Noon. -3 45 2 13 5°t -74 29 45 4- 20 29,8 6 7 65 6 24 45t -74 57 24 42 9 29,9 65 64 6 70 50 42 2 5t 30,1 66 i 66 6 30 2 24 -75 -9 5- 42 29 3°,° 66 654 6 70 14 43 oot 30,0 69 64-: 9 49f -75 10 12 43 24 30,15 66 62 6 68 32: 44 38 A 30,2 66J 62 3- 164 176 44 35 45 40 3°, 1 66 57 6 6 ; 28 45 43 29,8 66 57 6 |i8 364 -77 10 36 45 47 3°,° 65 614
O'Cr , +°-fi' , œ 0 *"0 ■o- | +o*jco"Q ON BOARD THE ADVENTURE 161 F 8 D $ 8 n ? h O D ? h O l 773 - Time byNo. 1 Altitude of the -A's L. L. Longitude East of Greenwich. Latitude of the Ship 8 'nth. Barometer. Thermoms C. D. 0 c Remarks. H ' " O / 0 * ft O ' " Dec. 28. Noon. 65 57 = 47 30,05 64 54 ■Very hazy. 4 24 52 42 8f 178 44 12 47 50 2 9'95 62 5il 6 - 29. Noon. 64 55 48 74 29-9 63 54 3 33 3 34 28s 180 31 104 5° 52 29,6 56 45 6 1774- Jan. 1. Noon. 61 §3 50 564 2 9 , 7 b 55 46 14 26 12s 334 181 39 49 5i 7 2 9,75 50 41 6 4 11 55 t 4i 54? 182 51 52 51 28 29,85 52 4i 6 -- 2. Noon. 61 8 5s 364 30,05 57 48 .. ■ ' 4. i 48 12 25 3 2t l 9 I 55 5i 55 15 29,65 50 49 6 - 5. Noon. 56 58 55 2 84 29,4 62 46 - - 7. 1 52 50 3 1 4 ^t 202 26 36 57 8 29,8 55 38 6 - 8. Noon. 54 59 57 5 A 29-7 60 40 2 5 ii 33 26t 202 35 21 57 8f 29,75 54 36 6 9 - Noon. 54 28 57 284 29,65 55 38 - - - 10. 0 39 1 26 554 212 19 28 58 14 28,8 50 35 6 - XI. Noon. 53 2i 58 18 28,65 55 36" - -- 1 2. 12 20 Oy 10 23 2l6 29 30 58 45 28,45 56 3 6 Z 3 - 13. Noon. 52 Z5 58 454 28,55 60 41 - - 14. 0 22 17s 29 3 i 4 222 19 45 58 48 29,1 51 39 s 6 - 15. Noon. 52 10 58 484 29,0 58 38 i - --- 16. Noon. 5i 57" 58 504 29,5 57 40 - 0 n 16 32 284 231 27 32 59 3 29,65 5° 39 6 -17. 10 22 31 47 0 Pocket l O N. E. | N. at the first Observ. Ship's -18 12 22 38 5 1 4 Watch. 5 59 11 course E. £ N. distance run 15 miles. 0 2 59 35 407 240 23 49 59 23 28,6 5i 42 6 -19 Noon. 50 47 59 244 28,75 54 41 - 6 14 29 4i i4 242 4 51 59 26 28,7 59 40 6 6 27 37 39 344 242 12 1 2 59 26 59 4° 3 7 29 59 32 104 242 26 14 59 28 28,4 59 39s 6 -20. Noon. 50 7 59 524 28,45 58I 41? -21. Noon. 49 37 60 94 28,35 59 41s 9 1 56; 1 7 25^ 248 2 38 60 94 28,55 58 40 3 -22. Noon. 50 2 59 3*4 28,75! 56 42 8 55 11 16 3 9 a 250 28 34 59 23 28,5 59 4 o 6 22 29 2 6f 29 22 251 54 23 59 s7 28,55 52 40 3 -2Z- Noon. 50 4 59 15* 28,5 57 42 - 24. Noon. j 9 32 59 337 28,85 5o 3 *i- 9 3 2 11 49 257 29 12 59 37 29,0 57 42 4 - 28. Noon. 46 20 01 46 6 39 3 s 20 54 274 27 34 61 47 j 29,25 63 41 6 21 9 9f 30 1 87 27728 6 61 45. I 22 45 26 39 56 Pocket 1 O N. byE at the first Obiervation. Ship s - 29. 0 34 11 45 46 Watch. 5 01 50 j course N.E.by I. distance run 10 miles. 20 25 23 27 42 s 282 49 57 61 37 29,4 54 4 It 6 -ZV. Noon. 46 0 Si 344 2 9'35|6 i 424
-r 1 +6 +a ■!" " O si 162 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS, > 774 - TimebyNo, 1, n H Altitude of the K's L. L. Longitude East of Greenwich. Latitude of the Ship 8. 0 ' 0 0 3 6 . - 8 . 9 16, 18. 1 9 20. 21. 22 24 8 25 i Noon. 17 46 9 19 34 28! 21 07 7 22 35 Al 16 33 24 Noon. 19 22 58 33 544 46 o l6 55 t 30 184- 39 47 45 n '3 377 45 59 35 284 2- 26 n 26 27 March 1 297 40 29 3 01 34 27 302 23 12 Pocket 1 Watch. ! 3 1 4 41 37 316 56 41 19 23 3 ° 35 33 ? 22 26 3 ° 46 25 5 Noon. 47 i 7 :; . 1 16 49 24 336 35 34 >9 53 10 46 3 ° ) 20 53 10 47 2 5 i 9 47 37 47 1 I 20 37 27 47 30 ; 26 0 4 51 28 35 t 344 0 7 33 47 36 52 346 go 55 Noon. 47 10 1 9 26 16 52 | 347 47 5 i 14 48 59 ? i§ 27s 349 6 44 Noon. 47 OX I 1 22 9 t 13 i8f 349 57 6 Noon. 46 42 - 0 40 5 1 i 4 434 356 30 46 4 33 59 34 3 ° Pocket 7 6 20 35 44 1 5 Watch, i 4 49 26 16 13 ? 359 53 27 14 9 16 '7 t >4 3 21 33 60 48 60 44' 60 29 60 38 60 36 59 3° 59 *6? 58 38 S 8 30 57 2of 53 55 54 ° 53 20 53 21 53 24 53 23# 53 24 53 *4 53 53 14 52 464 52 51 53 *5 53 25 Thermoms. 'Z O c. D. O •"h O Remarks. cr 54 41 6 54 T 41 6 55 |4 ! t 1 6 Barometer. 29'5 29'5 I 29,5 s Q N. 4 E. at the first Observat. Ship's at first Observation. Ship's course N. E.f N. dist. run 14s miles. 29,2 5 2 35 5 29,2 57 i 41 *29,8 54 35 4 [gN.N.I i. at sir 29,85 1 29,4 O N 57 - 6 1 37 39 E. at the first Observ. Ship's course N. E. by N. dist. run 2f miles. 29-7 2 9*75 29,0 29,1 29,4 30,05 29,95 3°,° Ship's course E. by S. 10 miles. 56 37 57 38 6 52 39 6 55 39 t 56 3 °i 3 53 37 6 57 40 52 39 3 56 394 6 E. f E. at 38 37 Altitudes of Spica fl J?. 29,0 , ^ r J __ . 29,4 |49x . Here, Mr. Bayley having completed 360° of longitude, or one revolution round the globe, from the meridian of Greenwich, eastward, to the meridian of Greenwich again, rejected 360°, and repeated February 26, in order to bring his day to correspond with that at Greenwich. Noon. 23 48 12 Noon. 23 53 26 15 18 27 15 48 26 17 52 40 14 20 38-4 Noon. 23 49 544 2x 40 j 21 46 X 44 11 45 56 :: 16 104 7 Si 29 554 33 26 . 42 25 S 23 3 °s 43 12 8 41-I- 44 58 2 5 56 T 4 55 48 9 56 40 tx 9 3 iZ *3 *5 13 30 22 15 53 27 53 33 53 53 ? 53 48 54 5 54 44 53 38 53 17-i 52 56 5 ° 45 r 50 38 29,6 55 37 6 29,55 59 37 29-5 57 4 o i 28,85 57 34 6 [ 29,2 S 2 l 35 6 c © N. E. by E. at the first Observ. Ships I course E. 8. E. 4 E. dist. run 74 miles 29,2 34 34 6 29,65 56 34 ? 6 29,9 57 38 29,2 5 ° 43 3
"0 7 * ". ►" O ON BOARD THE ADVENTURE. '774* TimebyNo. 1 | Altitude of the 0's L. L. Longitude East of Greenwich. Latitude 0 the Ship South. Barometer, - Ther c. morns, D. H ' " Q ' O O " March 7 . Noon. 46 25 48 324 29,85 57 41 18 47 18 45 64 48 15 29,8 40 22 51 36 r4 35% l6 42 3 48 15 29'95 57 39 12 55 47i 13 24 l6 39 57 47 53 3°>° 38 38 $ - 8 . Noon. 46 57 47 364 29,75 59 40 "4 - 10 . Noon. 5° 33 43 134 29,85 59 471 22 39 3? ■5 391 17 21 3i 42 49 29,7 60 49 ¥ - 11 . Noon. 5i 35 4i 484 30,05 61 55 14 5 4i 27 174 17 43 37 41 24 29,8 571 6 if h --- 12 . 12 25 14 9 *34 17 3 8 31 40 23 29,6 62 64 O - 13 . Noon. 52 36 39 59 29,6 65 60 22 19 47 17 384 18 27 0 39 37 29,55 §3 61 12 53 4 i i5 334 19 0 12 38 0 29,75 64 64 s 5 - 14 . Noon. 54 40 37 32f 29,7 65 65 s 22 34 59t 14 214 IS 53 0 37 3 30,0 67 62 $ - 15 . Noon. 56 1 7 35 3 °, 2 67 69 22 34 44 f l 4 3 § 19 4 48 35 18 30,25 bb 68 S - 16 . Noon. Z6 4 7i 34 371 30,05 70 691 20 37 3 16 294 19 21 25 34 35 30,1 §9 68 f / 12 45 33\ 15 214 20 0 13 34 21 30,15 68 68 f 4 - 17 . Noon. 56 481 34 X 2-j^q 30,0 70 694 22 11 10 16 541 20 35 16 s 34 10 30,0 70 70 ¥ - 18 . 21 52 56 I 20 0 20 5i 25 ^ 30,0 69 i 23 o b o cr 6 6 8 6 6 6 3 6 Remarks. 3 3 6 6 4 In light of the Table Hill. Off the entrance into Table Bay, attheCapeofGoodHope. L - 2Z. Mr. Bayley compared the watch with his clock, by which the times, of equal altitudes of the fun had been noted, (fee p. 77). From whence it appears that the watch was 6 h. 45' 23" too flow for mean time at the Cape, on that day at noon ; and by comparing this with the time shewn by it at Queen Charlotte's Sound, in December last, and allowing the rate it was then going at, I find that it makes the difference of longitude between this place and that 207 0 20' 53"; that is, it makes the Cape Town 21 0 22' 48" east of Greenwich, or 2 0 59' 33" greater than the truth. Computing all the way from England, at the rate it was going when at Greenwich, it puts the Cape Town 103 0 21' 54" to the eastward of Drake's Island in Plymouth Sound, or 99 0 5' 46" east of Greenwich ; that is, 8o° 42' 3 st' more than it ought to be. But farther: Mr. Bayley computed that this Watch was 1 h. 55' 12",6 too stow for mean time, at this place, on o November 22, 1772, and it was then losing at the rate of 20", 2727, &c. a day; consequently, it should have been too stow on March 23, 1774, by 4 h. 5' 37^87 only, instead of 6 h. 45" 23": the difference, 2 h. 39^ 4Z"t3 -39° 56' 17''in Longitude, is what the Watch has erred from itself in 16 months. Lastly, Mr. Bayley found that it was now losing 1 ' 3",668 a day on mean time, and that it was too stow on©, April the 10th, at noon, by 7 h. 4 29^9; on which suppositions, and that the Longitude of the Cape Town is 18 0 2/ East, the following Longitudes of the ship are computed. U u
O^-K) "s w O ■o - ' *© £ "c o" w O •r' * *oc °" t> 164 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS 1 774 * TimebyNo.i. Altitude of the 0's L.L. Longitude East of Greenwich. Latitude of the Ship South. Baro- meter. Them c. noms. D. 2; O O **n c cr Remarks. H ' " 0 0 ' ' April 16. 20 44 124 18 42 ttt 18 22 28 33 49 30,05 72 - ■ ~6 Cape Town S. S 12 37 14 15 2 It 17 35 44 33 18 30,1 68 64 5 17 - Noon. 46 l 4 33 I 2 t 30,15 6§ 65 - 18. 12 42 59s IZ 4 *t 16 21 48 32 5 8 29,87 68 s 64 5 - 19. Noon. 45 28 33 4 ? 29,9 70 66 - 12 10 534 9 35 s 16 15 9 32 38 30,15 70 64 6 - -- 20. Noon. 45 3 8 32 33 A 30,1 69 7 1 - 20 27 25 22 16s 16 2 15 32 28 30,0 64 6 13 5 47 ? l 9 28s H 42 0 3 1 26s 30,05 70 6zi 6 -- 21. Noon. 4 6 38 ■Si ! 3 f 29,85 70 63s 12 21 54-I 10 9i i 3 3 5 8 ! 3 o 23 29,9 68 63 6 --' 22. Noon. 47 15 3 ° 164 29,85 68 f 66| 2i 57 30 7 16s l 3 3 48 30 08 2 9,95 67 64 6 12 6 284 7 25 t lZ 8 *5 29 27 30,05 69 65 6 --- 23. Noon. 47 55 : 29 144 30,0 70 66 - - 24. Noon. 49 64 27 44 ? 30,0 68 66 - 13 36 10 2Z 544 9 3 1 18 26 23 30,0 67 6 4 | 6 - 25. Noon. 5 ° 18 26 ?34 29,9 7 °s 67 12 31 l8 10 8 14 22 25 6 30,15 67 66 6 - 26 Noon. 5 i 14 24 57 t 30,0 70 69 s - 12 20 41! 7 164 6 44 0 24 2 30,05 7 i 66f 6 - 27. Noon. 52 44 23 474 29,9 69 70 - 13 28 i§ 20 564 5 51 22 22 58 29,85 70 66 6 - 28. Noon. 52 444 22 49 29,9 69 69s -- 29. Noon. 53 21 21 53 29,95 75 22 20 29 9 5 1 4 9 5 21 45 29,95 70 68 6 12 29 52s 7 50 i 3 43 1 21 28 30,0 7 i 69 6 - 30 . Noon. 53 35 21 214 3 °,° 72 77 i 13 6 11 15 224 3 0 2 20 56 30,0 - 691 6 May 1. Noon. 53 464 20 5 i 4 30,1 73 76 - 14 22 28 3 ° 534 2 23 36 20 30 30,0 73 7 of 6 - 2. Noon. 53 58 20 22 § 2 9,95 73 s 7 °s - 12 31 30 7 38 2 1 22 l 9 39 30,0 73 s 69' 6 ■- 3. Noon. 54 3 ° 1 9 324 3 °,° 74 744 <3 3 5 l 14 4°l i 45 24 -9 29 30.0 72 7 i 4 6 -- 4. Noon. 54 18 *9 2 74 30,0 74 7 6 - i 4 15. 43 29 22s 1 2 53 18 57 30,0 72 7 i 4 6 - 5- Noon. 54 40 f 18 474 30,05 72 734 - 22 42 32s 6 42 1 0 4 i 48 18 37 30,0 73 70 3 West. 12 54 58 11 53 0 18 33 17 57 29,9 73 7 °i 6 6. Noon. 55 30 *7 4 °t-o 30,0 73 734 7 - Noon. 56 5 16 49 t 29,95 73 75 8. Noon. 56 4 94 *5 484 30,0 72 744 21 44 444 22 4 I t 2 5 8 3 r 5 41 30,05 72 69 6 - 9 22 11 154 (8 124 4 18 18 14 36 30,15 73 7 ° 6
ON BOARD THE ADVENTURE 16s 1 774 * Time byNo.i. Altitude of the 0's L. L. Longitude West of Greenwich. Latitude of the Ship South. Barometer. Therr c. ooms. D. No.ofObs. Remarks. H ' " 0 O " 0 ' $ May io. Noon. 58 42 s *3 23? 30,15 76 75 22 3 15 21 42f 5 58 34 13 8 30,15 76 71 2 S - 1 ■- I I. Noon. 59 48 12 21 30,15 76 75 22 27 32 -7 564 7 33 50 11 49 29,8 76 72 6 12 51 44 7 254 8 18 45 9 32 30,0 76 75 3 % -- 12. Noon. 60 52 10 43-rV 29'95 7 7 77 lZ 54 55 2 1 H 9 48 10 9 32 30,0 77 76 6 ? - 13 - Noon. 62 5 9 144 29,95 78 80 22 58 164 *4 10 24 27 8 58 30,0 77 73 6 13 11 13 10 25 11 23 43 8 14 29,95 78 75 6 h - 14- Noon. 63 9 7 554 3°, 0 794 8o| lZ 3° 23 14 IC 4 12 5i 7 6 5 1 29,8 784 774 6 O - 15. Noon. 64 141 6 33t 29,85 80 8i| 23 J 9 25l 12 i8| *3 27 32 6 16 29,9 81 81 6 *3 H 3it 9 5 j t 14 23 32 5 30 29,85 79 784 6 D - 16. Noon. 6§ 23 5 144 29,9 82 82s 23 20 37s -3 34i >4 53 13 4 58 29,95 81 82 6 13 26 45 11 59t 9 o 15 44 39 4 15 30,0 8 of 79i 6 <? -17. Noon. 66 24 3 594 29,9 79 78 4 23 15 24 16 18 f 16 20 34 3 41 29,9 81 80s 6 13 28 32 11 39^ 17 18 48 2 52 29,95 79 784 6 L - 18. Noon. 67 35 2 35i 3°,° 794 8 if 23 27 20 15 124 17 54 2 2 20 30,0 8if 8o| 6 13 11 39 7 18-& 18 33 42 1 20 30,0 784 77 3 if -19. Noon. 68 59 0 58* 3 o,° 79 80 23 20 n| 17 584 18 45 55 0 43 30,0 80 80'- 6 North. ¥ - 20. Noon. 70 6 0 21 f 21 10 19 21 i4 i9 20 53 0 34 29,9 80 6 23 47 58 12 1 7t'o- -9 23 0 0 35 29,9 794 8q| 3 h 21. Noon. 70 57 1 244 29,95 794 80 0 14 19I 7 i/i 20 27 34 1 38 29,9 80 794 3 14 36 11 26 36s 21 10 34 2 37 29,9 79 80 6 O - - 22. Noon. 72 15 2 544 29,95 82s 824 14 23 46 23 481 21 48 25 3 55 30,0 8of 79 3 r - 2Z- Noon. 73 14 :: 4 5tt 30,0 82 83 Very hazy. 1 5 38 18 41 174 2 1 55 30 4 27 29,95 6 F - 24. Noon, 73 34f 4 364 29,95 80 79 13 28 if 11 434 21 50 2 5 194 29,95 80 78 6 s - 25. Noon. 74 14 5 274 30,1 83 82 13 29 40 3 l 12 324 21 48 18 5 5 1 30,05 82 81 3 If - - 26. Noon. 74 32 5 554 13 35 52s 14 44 21 56 8 6 0 29,9 81 77 6 ? • -y. Noon. 74 25s 5 59? 30,0 82s 814 h - 28. Noon. 74 38- 6 21 i 29,9 81 77 Hazy. 23 7 44 t 24 324 22 *9 3 6 26 29,95 814 80 6
✓ 166 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS 1774. Time by No. 1. Altitude of the ©'* L. I, Longitude West of Greenwich. Latitude os the Ship North. Barometer. Th err c. noms D. 2 0 O cr Remarks, H ' " O / O ✓ // 0 ' 0 May 29. Noon. 74 45 6 374 29-95 80 79 3) -3°. 16 20 5/5 53 2 3 t 2 I 24 15 6 36 29,95 78 77 s $ -31. Noon. 74 26s 6 36? 30,05 80 79i - 23 12 50 21 59 r 21 24 54 6 3 8 30,0 79 76 6 14 6 284 l 3 7 t 21 21 6 6 46 30,05 79 79 k 6 . S June 1. Noon. 74 29s 6 47A 3o,o 8 if 81 iZ gr 7 r 5 30 21 0 15 7 5 30,0 79 k 6 % ■- 2. Noon. 74 4i 7 7 r 30,0 80s 81 13 20 46 12 29 T V 22 3 11 7 IO 30,0 79 79i 6 ? - 3. Noon. 74 36 7 10 A 30,0 80 So 13 1 5 8 10 58a 22 4l 37 7 35 29-95 79 78s 6 h 4- Noon. 74 5 8 f 7 39A 30,0 80 81 15 4 46 13 48s 23 28 50 7 56 30,0 79 77 k 3 O - 5. Noon. 75 us 7 594 29,9 80 So " Noon. 75 20 8 14 30,0 8o| 81 23 33 5* 19 of 24 10 54 8 20 3°'° 80 78 6 * 14 30 48 27 284 24 56 53 9 7 30-0 79 ■ 78 6 9 - -- - y. Noon. 76 -5 9 I4 t ZO-o 8of 80 15 20 41 38 184 26 19 49 10 20 30-0 7 8 77 3 S 8. N oon. 77 23s 10 28-A 29,8' 79 791 14 2 43 19 59 t 27 27 36 11 37 29,9 77 77 6 V 9 Noon. 78 41 . 11 5U 29-95 79 79 k \ 14 1 51 19 224 28 43 2L '3 3 29,95 77 76 6 ? --- 10. Noon. 80 2 iZ i8i 30,05 77 k 77i 13 27 55 n 13 A 29 56 18 14 234 29,85 77 74 6 Tl - 11. Noon. 8 I 22§ 14 42 30,0 , 7 *>i 76s 14 6 57 -9 384 31 13 57 16 3 30,0 76 74 3 O -- 12. Noon. 83 0 16 234 30,0 76 76 0 47 49 10 564 3 1 45 6 16 43 30,0 76 74 3 D - 13. Noon. 84 17s 17 44 f 30,0 ?6f 75 23 52 51 24 84 32 27 18 18 0 3°'° 76 74i 6 14 14 29 21 214 32 39 47 18 5 8 3°'° 75f 74 6 F - 14. Noon. 85 43f '9 I3f 29,95 76s 77 0 37 "4 47A 32 44 42 19 29s 30,05 76 75 6 13 40 29 15 1 5 t 33 4 41 20 24 30,1 76 75 6 L IZ Noon. 87 164 20 49 t 30,05 76 /6 0 17 31 lo 04 33 18 14 21 10 3 °,° 76 75 6 V - 16. Noon. 88 47 22 21A 3 °, 1 5 77 77i 23 3° 42f 31 17-A 34 3 2 22 35 30,'5 76 76 6 13 29 22 11 484 34 40 52 23 28 § 30,15 76s 76 6 S -17 Noon. 89 28 23 45 t 30,2 78s 79 01856 2i 334 34 5 1 57 23 58 30,2 78 78s 6 >3 44 57 15 24 t 35 6 30 24 48 30,25 77 k 76 6 -18. Noon. 88 5 25 9r 30,25 78 77f 0 56 46s -4 o| 35 14 29 25 27 30,2 77 6 Q -19. Noon. 86 41-4 26 334 30,2 77 77s
ON BOARD THE ADVENTURE 167 Time by No. 1. Altitude Longitude Latitude Thermoir.s. z j i . * ■ t.r os the K's Well of of the Ship Baro- O 1774- L. L. Greenwich. North. meter. c. D. 0 Remarks. H ' " O * O ' 0 cr O June 19. 0 19 22 22 l8-4 35 l6 37 26 52 30.2 77 75 6 13 5 2 4 18 i ot- 35 7 35 27 42 3°> 2 7 6 ! 75f 6 D - 20. Noon. 85 16 28 Oro r i°"3 77 7 6 s 13 46 43 17 3 8 35 6 12 28 58 30,3 77 74f 6 - - 21. Noon. 83 59 29 I 7 * 30-25 79 77 i4 3 53 21 37i 35 23 12 30 34 30-3 78 75 6 s --- 22. Noon. 82 21 3° 55' 30,3 76 75 13 *9 3 1 13 7t 35 3 1 36 32 13 30,3 76 75 6 n - 23. Noon. 80 36 32 39r 30-3 ;6 74 6 1 19 26s 11 287 35 4i 19 33 2 30,2 76 744 14 0 5 21 28s 36 6 45 34 2 30,35 76 72s 6 ? - 24. Noon. 7 8 5°4 34 2 34- 30,45 74 73s h - 25. Noon. 77 l6 i 35 5 6 ? 30,45 74 73* O -- 26. Noon. 76 0 37 50 30,35 734 72 6 23 7 3 1 38 8i 35 50 6 37 22 30,25 74 72 14 21 if 27 264 35 15 57 37 33 3o,3 73 71 6 v -- 27. Noon. 75 23 37 45r 30,3 74 73 13 49 ot 22 oj 34 22 5 37 51J 30,1 7i 6 S - - ■ 28. Noon. 75 i*t 37 53~r 3o,4 73 76 12 51 31 12 6t 33 45 34 38 3 1 30,2 72 6 13 10 23 15 3 6 t 33 44 54 38 3 1 30,2 72 6 s - 29. Noon. 74 227 38 401 3v,Z5 75 74s 14 13 2 28 26| 32 43 4i 39 3i 30,4 73 6 14 43 44 34 224. 32 45 36 39 4 30,4 73 5 V -30. Noon. 73 464 39 13 30,4 74s 76 16 15 564- 53 264 30 57 20 39 57 30,4 75 73 6 ? July 1. Noon. 72 49 40 6i 30,3 73s 74! Hazy. h -2. Noon. 72 1 if: 40 5°i 30,15 72 bb 23 45 24. 24 47t 29 7 37 41 0 30,15 73 /i 6 O - 3. Noon. 7i 13J 41 324 30.1 72 70s 23 50 4 22 254 27 4 24 41 51 30,05 73 7is 6 13 54 5° 31 184 25 32 33 42 33 30.15 72 70 6 v -- 4. Noon. 69 57 42 44 30,1 72 72 15 2 I2f 45 2i x V 23 1 54 43 48 30,0 72 7i 6 [6 55 19 18 20 O 63 18 ; 68 32 J C O 8. S. i. at the first Observation. F -5. 44 ' 1 Ship's course E. N. E. rate of 6 miles an hour. £ E. at the 12 55 254 24 43 1 20 32 17 45 22 29,8 I71 I67 | 61 16 51 0 62 504 45 454 Q S. S. E. at the first Observation, and S. bv W. F -- 6. 1828 0 66 2 > at the second. Ship's course E, N. E. 1 N. at 20 11 11 54 42 45 46! the rate of 7 miles an hour. 1 3 35 23 34 9? 27 5 3 46 55 29,85 66 56 6 V -- 7. Noon. 05 i34 47 94 29'85 63 59 13 5 37i 154 14 0 3° 47 56 29,95 59 57s 6 ? -8. Noon. 64 I If 48 5r 29,9 62 j 58 13 27 57 35 7i 10 41 47 1 49 0 29,9 59 57 6
168 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS. 1774. TimebyNo.i. Altitude of the <&'" L. L. Longitude West of Greenwich. Latitude of the Ship North. H ' " 0 0 ' " 0 h July 9. Noon. 63 of 49 9 i 22 53 1 20 3 9 r 3 55 49 H 13 25 49 39 24 7102 49 *9 16 2 20 60 on O -- 10. 17 11 10 62 39 J 49 2 i 4 - 12 21 344 30 274 4 27 35 49 26 D-11. Noon. 62 27 East. 49 274 $ - 12. 22 3 52 20 59s 0 33 16f 49 3 8 12 55 1 40 19 2 33 13 49 5 8 "4 - 14. 11 23 424 28 04 5 54 33 5 ° 4 5 i ¥ - 15. 11 14 29 26 384 5 59 46s O - 17. 11 14 1 5 i 26 484 6 12 37 D - 18.[ II 32 48 29 47 t 6 16 53 • Thermoms Baro- 1 meter. | C. D. 29-95 29-9 3 °,o o s. 62 6z 62 at Remarks. 57 57 4 564. 6 the first Observation. Ship's course E. 8 . E. 4 - E. at the rate of 64 miles an hour. 30-05 61 57 6 6 6 30,2 574 56 6 30,18 59 57 6 30,22 57 54 6 30,24 564 554 5 J On board the ship at j Spithead. According to the rate this Watch was going at when at Greenwich, before we left England, and the time it was set to at Drake's Island, in Plymouth Sound, July the 10th, 1772, it ought to have been too fast, for mean time, at that place, when the Observation of July the 14th, 1774, was taken, by 9' 35",6: Mr. Bayley then found it too flow for mean timfe, at Spithead, by 7 h. 56' ii // ,74; the Watch, therefore, places Spithead 8 h. 5' 47^34,= 121° 2 6 ' 50" to the East of Plymouth Sound ; but as it is only 3* 9' 15" to the East of it, the difference, 118° 17' 35", is the Watch's error in the course of the whole voyage $ that is, in two years and five days. Mr. Bayley went round with the Watch, in the ship, into the river; and July 27th delivered it at the Royal Observatory at Greenwich, when he found that at 8 h. 55' by the Watch, the transit Clock shewed 13 h 32' 24" : the Sun's transit, that day, was at 8 h. 23' 53", 86 by the Clock ; from whence it appears that the mean time of comparing the Watch was 5 h. 1/41",A ; and of course the Watch was too fast for mean time, at Greenwich, by 3 h. 41' 18",5. This Watch gained at the rate of o",8 a day on mean time from April 13 to April 25, 1772, before it went on the voyage, and it lost at the rate of T 21",89 a day, on mean time, from July 21 to the 27th, 1774, after its return. I think the titles at the tops of the several columns will sufficiently explain themselves but it may be necessary to remark, that the Thermometer marked C was kept in the cabbin, close to the Watches, and that marked D was in the open air, upon deck, but kept shaded from the sun.
O B S E R V A T I o N s O F T H E MOON's Distance from the SUN and Fixed ST ARS, for determining the LONGITUDE at Sea, Made on Board his Majesty's Sloop Adventure, in her late Voyage on Discoveries towards the South. By Mr. WILLIAM B A Y L E Y.
■c/r-.'p 4 ■ /*••* m. -> ■is ," #%-*!
0 or* +o £io""c°" " ON BOARD THE ADVENTURE. 171 1772. L n - ? - h - Oct. PimebyNo. 1 Diltance 3 ) 's L. from 0 's rr * . Altitude of the H's L. L or 4 : Moon's Altitude. Lonzitude Well of Greenwich. Latitude of the Ship N. H ° 0 ' 0 0 0 21. 94 37 40 52 4^4 25 12 U. 9 294 43 3 6 22. 8Z 58 0 40 52 46 404 u. 11 9 42 27 23 - 73 24 12 13 > 5 t 62 124 L. 11 344 40 34 4 - 4 42 54 7 2 54 3 ° 37 51* 49 2 *? i U 18 28 28 29 6 5 ° 28 73 35 5 6 10 104 47 10J L. 17 504 28 25 9 47 6 38 49 10 3 i 144 l 9 15 L. 17 53 28 20 5 - 5 22 41 86 27 27 29 181 45 to CO "i" c 18 554 2 7 3'4 5 52 53 86 36 0 22 38 i 47 2 74 Lb 18 4 i 4 2 7 314 IO. 8 32 4 -r 43 56 7 i 46 l 9 37 18 U. 22 214 i 7 24 9 11 21 43 4 i 18. 18 24 44 34 58 0 7 1 40 22 27 u. 20 494 10 54 '9 53 24 L 114 6 25 13 19 5 ° 55 f U. 20 574 IO 47 i. 3 26 4 2 55 5 15 t 38 2 li 76 14 5 534 1 55 3 - 7 14 54 56 54 20 J 63 124 58 354 8 494 0 55 4 - 3 0 58 94 57 27 J 47 444 36 iof U. 9 35 0 49 5 - 3 22 26 107 11 15 1 42 39 t 28 48 U. 9 4 °T and Al- debaran. D and o. D and o . 5 and a, Aquilae. D and ©. 5 and O . D and o . 3 ) and 0. 3 72 { 73 7 2 4 7 ° 5 731 5 3 3 5 4 5 69 69 469 3 6 3 358 6 59 3 59 3 59 57 57 3) and " Aquilae. 3) and ce Arietis. 3 > and 0 . 3) and 0 . 3) and o . 3) and 0 . 3) and o . S and 0. D and 0 . 3> and © . 3) and 0 . 3) and 0 . 3) and o 3 ) and o 3 ) and 0 . 3 ) and © . 3 ) and © . 3 ) and Aquilae- 3 ) and a Aquilae.
172 astronomical observations Distance P's Altitude of Moon's Altitude. Longitude Latitude H 1772. rime by No. 1 L, from 0 *s or *. the V's j. L.or * West of Greenwich. of the Ship 8. b O 1 ©b)eAs. H ° / // 0 0 0 ' 0 ' ST L 0 Oct. 11- 6 7 59 5 6 0 26 | Apparent time, end of tl.e Lunar Eclipse. ^ gy Op^Furaeaux. 9 45 37 83 50 18 J 24 i8| 36 21* L. 6 5 t 34 46 4 57 \ P and " Aquilae. 10 57 12 44 15 35 t 13 34 43 54 t L. 6 174 34 46 3 57 \ p and Al- debaran. 23 8 f p and Al- 5 12. 10 42 31 32 12 ioi 35 214 L- 6 40' 34 53 4 57 } debaran. East. ! ¥ - l6. 18 33 35! 118 29 55 f 23 52 t 18 o|U. 4 n-f 35 1 3 57 p and q . P - 19 14 55 54 56 19 49 X 35 7 \ 28 361 L. 7 584 34 32 4 ] p and Al- debaran. 18 43 54 82 37 0 + 3 * 24 t 37 1 54 U, 8 24 34 38 3 p and ©. 18 57 59 8 2 3 1 l 5 + 33 20 3 b ifU. 7 56 34 38 5 59 P and ©. 20 8 7 82 6 30 t 47 8f 27 414 U. 8 5 t 9 o- 34 38 4 P and ©. i - 20. -7 26 571 70 16 54 t '5 64 41 327 L. 8 36-rr 35 *4 6 55 P and ©. p Nov. 3 °- 2 30 55 73 54 32 J 29 5 t 56 32s L. 17 43 ? 42 32 3 52 P and © . 71 Dec. 3 3 35 37 107 56 42 '7 5 *i 39 14 u. 18 35 t 44 46 4 46 P and ©. ? -- 4 - 2 21 42 118 26 24 x 3 i 2t 21 254 u. *7 57 -ro 45 55 5 42 P and ©. % -- * 7 ' 15 23 3 i 81 53 3 ° t 18 3 i 36 20 L. 24 52s 55 57 3 307 P and ©. 15 43 52 81 45 1 t 20 58 36 48 L. 24 464 55 5 5 3°7 P and ©. 16 8 24 81 35 30 t 24 234 37 254 U. 24 594 55 5 4 3 of p and©. n 73 511 u. P and ©. h Jan. 2. 3 52 I2§ 109 10 2 23 21 6 9 597 59 0 4 3 2 f 4 59 io 9 32 30 15 1 19 14s u. 10 21 5 8 56 3 3 1 P and ©. 5 12 M i.e 9 37 53 '3 25 19 27 u. 9 524 58 55 2 3 1 P and ©. S - '3 6 3 1 47 l 12 14 21 j 3 1 58 '5 434 u - 39 45 64 3 4 32 s P and ©. ! 7 20 - 3 i I I I 49 7 1 36 43 f 11 174U. 39 36 64 i' z 4 32s p and ©. 17 34 38 l I I 41 3 ° t 38 5 i 9 53 i U. 39 40 1 64 1 6 3 2 P and © . n- - 14 '7 22 98 45 3 i f 37 134 20 9 U. 40 3! 63 36 4 34 P and ©. x 7 35 58 98 37 29 t 38 27s 18 544 U. 39 324 63 36 5 34 P and © . 17 49 46 98 31 40 f 39 48 *7 31 U. 39 3 1 ? 63 36 3 P and © . 22 20 54 53 23 37 t 41 234 3 i 104 U. 51 58s 56 20 2 33 P and © . Of Feb. 4 - 4 59 52 34 56 36 i *3 56 21 34 L - to 234 4 42 - i P and Al- 1 debaran. b 6 4 57 5 1 61 57 22 j 14 18 24 33 t l - 62 29s 48 20 4 43 > P and Al debaran. ¥ 12 12 11 48 105 33 14 9 207 48 147 u. 7 i 34 i AI O 6 3 8 P and © . 1 4 43 25 104 31 36 - 32 5 8 f 3 ° 4-4 U. 7 1 5 i 5 1 1 4 i 8 P and © . b 13 16 18 59 90 34 25 : 46 7 24 42 u. 76 h 4 5 l 37 1 P and © . 16 39 i 7 90 24 26 ; *7 50-l 21 414 u. 76 i8| 5 1 37 4 38 P and © . 8 - 17 15 3 28 40 i 23 - 41 46 52 141 u. 88 1 si 52 53 2 37 P and © . O 28 .18 9 31 74 40 22 ; 29 32^ 20 57 i L. 122 37i 50 15 2 p and © . 18 32 6 74 47 57 26 5 22 84 L. 122 29s 50 15 5 54 P and © . il March 4 . ! 9 15 45 120 14 2 i 11 a "f i 7 5 t L. 1 34 29 44 3 2 4 5 i P and © .
ON BOARD THE ADVENTURE 1 73 I 773 - TimebyNo.i. Distance y 's L. from H or *. Altitude of the H's L. L. or . Moon's Altitude. Longitude East of (ireenwich. Latitude of the Ship S. H / 0 0 0 0 ' 0 ' n March 4. 2 I 19 49 38 49 8 t 2 3 364 26 327 L. 134 334 44 20 O 12 50f 40 17 2 + 32 13; 20 5 2 t L. 134 57i 14 18 0 7- 21 12 22 37 37 18 t l 7 271 24 94 L - I42 40I 43 46 $ - 9- 5 11 4i 20 34 18 t 44 53f 25 48 L. 146 47i 43 44 L - 10 21 7 9r 44 3 1 04 t 24 8 I I 364 L - 147 33 A 43 22 © - 14. 11 41 i8| 97 24 45 t 45 254 18 49 r U. I48 2 t I 'o' 43 23 v 15- 7 48 18 86 3 13 t 11 424 62 524 u. 148 374 43 33 16. 9 33 55i 85 27 7 + 29 45 49 44s U. 148 427 43 3° F -- 9 26 46 '/2 49 0 4* 29 74- 58 45f U. 148 26s 42 4 L l 7 - 9 27 22 60 25 18 t 29 42 ro 6 3 35A u. 148 26,4 40 4i O -- 28. H 3 8 11 53 34 30, t 3 1 33f 3i 55 \ u - 161 354 40 18 s 5 26 9i 53 48 39 t 23 471 32 43 U. 161 394 40 18 18 42 16s 48 8 9 t 21 I2f 16 8A U. 161 56 40 24 y - 29. 14 59 20 64 40 29 t 36 35f 29 19? U - 163 29s 40 42 15 36 1 5 64 50 15 t 20 20 30 42 U. 163 5°7 40 42 15 52 52 64 55 16 t l 7 2i4 30 567 U. 163 27 40 42 $ 30. i5 2 37 75 49 11 t 24 4 25 57 i U. 165 274 4 1 '7 15 3 l 75 5 8 0 r 19 n| 27 55 U. 165 34 4i 17 16 i4 10 76 10 2 t 11 47 r 29 351 U. 165 104 4i 17 h April 3- 16 16 39 123 42 15 4 3 i t 21 38 U. 40 30 r? 44 25 7i 43 30 t 18 54 3 1 547 L* 172 25-rv 40 28 21 10 12 60 40 10 t 48 15 33 154 L- 172 45A 4° 26 Q -- 4- *5 43 3 -36 25 10 9 3°i 11 384 u. 41 21 15 5 1 56 136 29 53 7 49 13 lOy U. 4i 21 16 0 50 ,36 33 45 6 174 14 394 U. 41 21 18 4 5i 47 50 4i t 16 2i4 32 404 L- '74 9 40 25 18 31 56 43 48 4 t l 9 434 35 40-4 L. 173 52| 40 25 2 June 9- 6 32 5 8 1 15 20 36 JL 1 8 oi 26 557 41. 179 137 43 5° 8 12 4i 114 34 30 t 18 33 9 244 u. 1 7 9 74 : h 12. 7 27 8 79 59 58 1- H 154 26 3°t U. 183 57 1 :: 46 17 26. 8 11 11 79 44 48 I '7 3 8 t 19 584 u. 184 2 3.V:-' 46 18 h 8 57 5 6 4 67 58 5i t 23 16 13 42 U. 196 377 43 5 4 10 49 57 107 35 15 £16 57? 17 30; U. I 99 2f 42 52 ? July 2 . 14 10 26 5 1 2 6 ^56 6 32 30 s u. 203 42| 43 1 3 5i 450 4 54 4 52 8 53 3 56 6ZZ y andAl- i debaran. t 5 and d Regulus. y and 54 53 5 54 461 661 562 462 2 62 363 4 64 2 64 463 4 6Z 4 60 2 59 663 5 63 563 563 61 653 5 54 6 4 i 5 5^ 3 4 8 452 I Pollux. 5 and Spica W. ( y and d Regulus. y and o y and o. y and o. y and o y and o. y and o y and © y and . Pollux, y and 0. y and © y and 0 y and o. y and © y and © y and ©, t backObs. s y andAl- d debaran. 5 y and Spica T y an © > by the j backObs s y and t Spica n. 5 y and k Pollux, y and © , y and ©. y and ©. y and ©. y and ©, y and ©. 348 { S ,and 5 r f Spica
* 74 * astronomical observations Time by No. 1. Distance E's L. from 0's or H. Altitude of the G's L. L, or * . Moon's Altitude, H " 0 / " 0 * O 17 18 554 51 57 52 t 72 co 36 26 L. 18 18 3 79 45 S 2 t 67 444 25 384 L. 4 0 42 hi 26 8 J 8 454- 20 37 U- 4 34 39 111 14 58 t 13 7 14 354 u - 4 11 45 99 59 24 f 11 254 21 214 u. 3 56 33 88 56 41 t IO 51-4 25 56-A u. 5 49 3 8 88 *5 22 -J 21 58 8 164 U. 3 24 43 78 6 18 t 7 264 30 52T U- 4 2Z 574 77 49 42 f 15 5 24 38f U. 9 51 36 64 49 35 23 364 57 394 u. 9 39 4 77 53 12 25 494 53 164 U. 9 49 5r 77 56 40 :: 24 134 55 94 U. 10 28 5° 73 IO 35 :: '7 224 61 39 u - 8 25 54 90 39 0 36 204 30 24 u. 10 58 4 6 4 91 29 5 t 12 5 61 404 U. l 3 11 3i4 17 7 0 t 60 8 : 7i 19 L. 13 34 524 81 1 13 f 17 224 68 39r L. 9 59 38 104 4i 40 2 3 2i4 39 164 u. IO 26 1 6 118 19 22 J 19 14-r 33 37? U. 10 23 17 131 43 7 t 19 114 22 104 u. IO 56 434 145 18 27 t >2 584 17 174 u. 16 36 9 59 13 5 1 54 184 66 9t L. 1 6 37 214 73 27 35 i 52 24 54 2l£ L. 1 18 59 i55 13 7 r 5 414 IO 314 L. 3 30 404 108 19 24 f 3i 52-4 20 574 kk 3 3i 574 97 17 21 -f 30 57 30 40 u. 4 20 43 97 0 52 4 40 184 20 15 u. 2 59 17 75 2Z 3° + 21 434 51 284 U. 3 8 21 75 21 51 + 23 384 50 204 u. ' 2 26 194 64 24 38 + 13 38 :4 11 L. 2 48 204 53 O 24 17 264 S 2 184 L. 3 44 3 8 52 47 13 29 3 1 53 28 L. 2 25 26 4i 34 21 : 10 544 43 11 6 13 89 30 25 25 534 62 4H U. 2 8 43 105 47 4 12 384 43 29 U. 3 44 37 94 2Z 59 i 33 14 U. 3 7 6 83 29 34 t 27 294 46 49I u. 4 0 I 60 26 57 i 40 20 52 484 U. 1773- 5 July 5 7 9 IO 11, 12, 25- 26. 27, 28. 29. 30. I 31- r Aug. 2. 4- 8 9 11 12 13 Longitude East of Greenwich. | 2 °7 52t 210 18A 215 214 217 218 219 220 220 224 225 225 225 225 225 28 -rV 55 84 48 l7 5 11 -A 7 16 r 4f 1 o-f 24s 12 I 225 13! 225 5l 224 28; 223 54 225 n| 225 254 226 584 227 izi 227 40 210 Latitude of the Ship 8. 42 55 41 51 43 28 43 28 43 32 43 16 40 29 43 27 5 1 27 42 27 20 26 58 20 49 l 7 44 *7 24 17 17 17 17 17 41 17 27 Jn Ohajr-a reno harbour in U- iietea Lat. 16 45^ S. H ra" 3 o 3 Objects. ^ 5 ® and 2 4 £Antares. S 3 ) and 4 49 ^Antares. 2 55 D and o . Z Z5 s and Q . 5 46 3) and © . 7 471 Z> and©. 448 3) and©. 656 3) and©, 656 3 ) and © . 6 66 3> and ©. 6 66f 3> and © . 366s " and©. 366s 3) and©. 6 67 3 ) and © . 2 67 3 ) and © . ^ ( 3 ) and 8 5 ^Spica * 53 . ^ C 3) and " ^ ^Aquilae. 6 67s I 3 ) and ©. 7 68 j l> and © . , ^ £ 3 ) and © , 4 9 £backObs.| 867*1 1 ando ' 86 ' r Jditto. L 5 11 and ^ 2Antares. g j Dand ' 7 Antares. . r 3 ) and©, J ^backObs. (752 | 31 and©. D and 0. 31 and © , I) and ©. 31 and ©. 3 ) and © . 3 > and © 3 > and © . 3> and © . 3 ) and © . 3 ) and © . E and ©. E and © 3 ) and ©
ON BOARD THE ADVENTURE / -> Distanct 5 's Altitude of Moon's Altitude. Longitude Latitude 2 H i? 7 Z TimebyNo. 1. L. from 0's the S's Last of of the p S" Object;. or . L. L. or $ . Greenwich. Ship S. Q 3 H 0 " 0 O ' O ' cr 3 $ 21. 9 4 44 58 53 II t 5 b 74 61 39 U. 204 18 18 25 "6 76 3) and © . 12 10 36 56 53 26 I 14 13I 74 35 U. 204 2 if 18 26 4 76; D and 0 . ? -- 24. 10 25 20f 99 3 1 48 1 42 2 A 37 30 U. 199 40 6 74 f 5 and ©., 10 37 55 99 34 51 t 39 i 74 40 214 u. 199 38 s 5 7 2 i 3 ) and 0 . h 25. 9 45 53 f 112 0 10 52 57 14 254 u. 197 24A -9 554 . 5 7 4 5 and 0 . D Oct. 4. 3 37 39 J 35 18 54 t 14 304 U 184 514 -85 144 ' At Tonga tabu. 7 66s 3) and 0 . 8 6. 5 25 20 112 53 41 i 9 524 U. Lit. 21? 4 fb 10 69s 2) and© ■ V 7- 3 14 T 5 102 42 37 16 42 41 294 U. 185 si 21 57i 6 7 1 £ 5 and©. ¥ -- - 8. 5 5i 17 90 39 15 t 53 8-1 23 3 i u * i 8 g 20 4 70s 3) and ©. h - 9 3 9 16 79 57 5 1 16 6A 50 464 U. 184 264 22 37 10 69s 3) and ©. 5 22 46 79 21 3 46 29I 37 564 U. [84 46 22 40 1 6 70 3) and©. o 10. 5 35 42 67 28 18 f 48 10^ 45 0 U. 183 7 i 10 67k 3) and ©. v 11. 3 43 2lf 55 46 34 t 22 234 50 i6i U. 182 2\ 6 67s 3) and ©. 6 2 30 55 4 22 ■f* 52 55f 49 274 TJ. l8l 454 6 6 j I) and ©. S - 20. 8 57 51 55 9 33 t 60 567 44 3°4 U. 179 39v 37 47f 6 594 3) and ©. 11 58 237 56 !9 40 j 39 434 69 524 U. 179 21 38 0 6 59 3) and ©. V 21 10 56 27 r 69 3° 22 45 3of 53 494 U. 178 134 39 10 6 60 3) and ©. rZ 41 34i 70 23 40 14 574 I67 29* L. 177 594 39 17 4 59 3> and © At the time of these last Oblervations, Table-Head in New Zealand sore due North. ¥ - 22, 11 33 494- 82 54 40 39 38 k8 174 u. 176 44A 40 30 3I47 3> and ©. These were taken between Cape Turn again and Black-Head in New Zealand 12 43 5 83 19 39 26 584 58 59 U. 17b 17A 40 30 6 58 3) and ©. h *.- 2Z- 10 53 •94 95 23 10 46 56 29 534 U. 175 534 40 51 t 554 3> and O . *3 18 264 96 18 44 20 5+1 54 16s U. 176 64 40 53 4 t 55 3) and © . o - 24. r 1 12 5 107 52 11 43 387 21 52 U. I 75 31 4 4i 30 6 60 3) and © . l 3 4 43t 108 37 48 2Z 34 41 24s U. 175 224 4i 32 6 58 3) and © . F Nov. 9 2 35 55 63 33 36 14 594 41 14U. 178 374 j In Tolaga ! 6 57 4 3) and © . 8 10. 2 8 2 50 48 22 IO 1 A 34 12 U. 178 30-4 | Lat. 38 ® Il'L. 1 12 56 3) and © . it 18. 12 14 41 5i 14 26 33 544 66 64 L. I 77 59 r 40 02 6 '9 3 ) and © . h 20. 14 15 55 78 7 2 t 11 55 59 374 L. 1 76 144 6 54 3) and © . D 22. 12 49 15 102 3 52 28 oJ* 42 13 U. 176 8 A 40 58 6 Zb 3) and ©. Cape J urnagain N. N.W . by Compass distant 7 or 8 leagues. 14 14 9 102 3° 20 12 274 51 414 u. 176 11 40 57 6 56 3) and ©. F Dec. 2Z- 11 39 104 "3 14 48 41 294 20 324 U. '75 5i? 40 57 6 6x4 3) and ©. S 22. 14 16 47 105 55 28 13 504 41 3 g i u. 174 3 i 4 41 20 6 65 3) and © . n - 2 3 - 12 43 3°4 116 25 53 3° 2 2f 23 48 u. 175 i64 42 29 6 65- 3) and © . 1 774 $ Jan. 4 - 2 1 4 102 9 18 27 224 29 38 u. 192 114 55 154 6 49 D and © . 2 53 3" IOI 47 30 34 55 24 494 U. 192 5 55 1 7 6 48 3) and ©. h -- 8. 2 5 X 6; 22 30 33 264 44 53 t U. 202 26 57 84 6 3b 3) and ©. S " 19. 6 14 29 82 20 10 4i 14 17 124 U. 241 374 59 26 6 +0 D and © . 6 27 37 82 25 3 ° 39 344 18 134 H. 241 39 59 27 3 40 3 ) and © . 7 29 59 82 48 58 32 104 21 53 t u. 241 52 s- 59 28 6 394 3) and © . ¥ 21. 9 5i 234 XOZ 48 38 f 11 26 16 214 u. 2 47 3 2 1- 2 394 3) and © . Z 2
i 7 6 astronomical observations, 1774 . TimebyNo.i. Distance E's L. from 0 's or Altitude of the H's L. L. or *. Moon's Altitude. Longitude East of Greenwich. Latitude of the Ship S. No.ofObf. Thermom. H ' " 0 ✓ " 0 0 0 ' 0 0 Jan. 30 . 12 36 17 41 crj O co 21 43 ? 17 51 s L. 286 194 6 l 28 4 4 lf ^ L Feb. 2 1 7 46 9 111 40 8 16 554 30 41 U. 3 01 13 60 39 6 41 I 19 34 28 no 5 1 5 8 30 18 s 20 49 u. 301 49 1 * 60 38 6 4 lf [ S -■-- 22 . 1 12 56 I 125 7 25 + 14 4 1 8 17 U. 349 564 53 I 4 6 39 \ ¥ - 25 . 3 9 4 i 70 " 33 t 15 464 13 5*4 L* 358 344 53 25 3 38 { 4 41 9 63 4 3 8 t 15 3 20 55 L. 359 °4 3,38 { h-2 6, 8 March 2 § it 6 . 7 16, * 7 - ?-18, 8 April 20 8 22 ? - 29- h -30. O May I E-2 - 3 5 and Spica "2. E and©. E and ©. E and Spica "2. Having completed 360° of Longitude, and of course gained a day, it was here rectified by repeating this. 38 29IU. 25 454 u * 34 3 *f U - 22 2 U. 53 7 i L - 33 35 L- 10 12 38 27 14 20 384 17 28 57 t8 47 18 '2 55 4 7 k 22 26 04 o 45 19 55 5 2 i 20 49 32 22 ix 10 21 52 56I 20 27 25 33 23 29 23 48 13 *3- Q- 13 13 29 l 5 7 52 12 59 46 -r 14 22 20f *4 39 47 15 36 7 12 56 46 12 33 23 '9 16 25 52 2i 7 17 53 13 20 59 2 23 27 17 118 44 33 118 o j 5 63 32 Z8 J 62 54 28 52 5 50 37 3 ° 58 f 8 44's" 23 30-z 46 24 45 64 13 24 *5 42f 32 49 16+28 20 48 12 26 43 36 59 37 50 Z3 5 59 59 l6 54s 70 54 59 20 106 29 56 36 11 21 + 54 47 32 t 125 32 28 + 124 36 45 + 112 4 Off in 3 ° 5 + 3 * l 7 J r 98 6 52 97 37 2 85 40 34 73 " 58 58 17 45 t45 20 T 47 28 30+50 18 42 55 27 +62 324 54 43 -9 t 43 W 4 66 22 5 11 58 22 164 21 2 24 28 47+ 17 84 39 254 14 4 34 I 3 t 43 59 13 74 8 84 4i 39 of L. 33f u - 544 U. 38 56 u. 38 46u. 18 50417. 38 324u. 39 k U. 4 1 34 9 5 1 32 4l 28 76 35 U. 224 U. 94 U. 84 U. 4 U. 13s u. 54 U. 7 8 454 L- 8 20 U. 60 134 U. 32 54+ U. 59 3° u - 68 8 L. 11 11 13 J 3 *3 17 42+ 294 464 5 8f 564 1 of* 53 44 53 3 8 48 15 j .8 1 5 47 53 16 Z9 16 56 17 59! if 484 18 22 -5 5 8 l 3 *7 2 9 i 28A 45tV 34 6 34 40 40 3 8 69I 68 *3 5 and © 5 and ©. E and ©. E and ©. D and ©. 3) and ©. f E andAl- t debaran. 34 35 6)68f j D and©. s The Table Mountain 1 ^ --^3 - j E. by S. 6 leagues. £ ^ anc * O . | 34 10 | 6[yo j E and ©. c In the Mouth ^ , i of Table Bay. } tamiG * 6 64 | E and © . s E and 3 I Spica M. D and 3 2 2 2 1 1 o 5 1 '" 42 6| 58 '9 534 West. o 14 1 10 11 58 s 14 32 16 4 9 T'S' 32 28 30 o 20 30 20 29 19 38 7 59 6 25 4 55 Pollux. 663 \ c- c- , E and © : ^ 4 backObs. 671 s 6 69s 74 7 °\ 7H 69s 6 70 7 l \ 72f 75 Sis 82 s E and ©. E and ©. E and ©. E and ©. E and ©. E and ©. E and©. E and ©. E and ©. E and © . E and ©. E and©.
ON BOARD THE ADVENTURE. 177 1774- Time by No. i. Distance B's L, from 0's or H. Altitude of the K's L. L. or H Moon's Altitude. Longitude West of Greenwich, Latitude of the Ship S. z p 0 0 £ Thermom. H 0 ' 0 O / 0 * 0 * $ May 17 . 23 24 26 77 40 39 14 *3 70 40 U. 17 29L 3 40 6 79s S 18 . 23 14 36 89 12 18 18 44 6z 5i U. 19 !9l 2 21 6 8of U - 19. 23 20 11 101 5 55 l 7 584 54 42 U. 20 34 0 43 6 8of North. ? - 20. 2 l 10 i9 ^3 17 2 21 ii 4i 14 u. 20 384 0 34 6 80 I 59 26 32 28 f 57 284 82 19 u. 20 34* 0 49 3 78s ' V -- 26. 6 26 6 39 46 5 t 34 37 54 10 L. 24 35! 6 2 4 76 j 6 38 42 65 *3 7 t 43 184 56 194 L. 24 28* '4 76 i h - 28. IO 38 i7l 5i 2; 27 22 35 A 6Z 24 L. 25 204 6 34 5 75 j 11 S 9 53 43 0 58 oz 6Z 16 U. 25 94 5 75 1 The apparent time of this last Observation was got from the altitudt :s of Antares . 35 53 6 75 1 2 3 s 1 67 48 45 t 61 364 32 454 35 334 6 74f f <J -- 14. 0 16 281 60 20 47 l 9 20* 74 8| 36 244 19 29 4 75 | 2 44 32s 55 32 11 + 60 *7f 40 49^ L. 36 17I 5 75 \ S I 5 - 21 25 59 7 1 8 5 58 384 49 454 U. Z6 434 21 84 6 75! I -- 16. 23 15 2| 8.3 3 1 44 34 424 59 544 U. 37 3 6 A 22 33 5 77 I 3 24 6 30 10 7 ft 57 io4 56 34 U. 37 35 6 76 j ? 1 7 - 22 58 34! 95 38 3i t 39 164 43 464 u. 38 394 6 79 I . 3 12 47 i7 3 11 f <5 184 57 374 L- 38 18 6 77 { 3 55 21 37 28 40 t 26 20 50 19s L- 38 21 5 77 { 4 "7 48! 62 27 22 t 35 324 45 584 L. 38 334 6 77 | T? - 18. 0 56 45s 108 54 43 14 o4 52 94 U. 39 154 25 27 6 77 1 3 45 42 49 11 06 f 3 1 *3t 54 494 L. 39 21 i 5 76 j i Objects. B and o. B and 0. B and o. I) and©. B and Spica 4K. 5 and " Aquilae. B and Spica M. B and Antares. B and a Pegafi. B and ©, B and o. B and o. B and 0 . B and©. B and ©. 3) and©. B and Regulus. B and ©. B and Spica B and ©. B and Spica 4K. B and ©. B and © . B and Spica '2. B and ©. B and Spica B and Regulus. B and Antares. B and ©. B and Antares.
i 7 8 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS. *774- Time by No.i. Distance P 's L. from 0 's or Hr . Altitude of the Q's L. L. or* . Moon's Altitude. Longitude West of Greenwich. Latitude of the Ship 8. £ O b O H nf 3 0 Objects. H O * ' 0 O 0 ' 0 / cr 3 O June i 9 . 22 3 8 44 120 OO tJ" CO vo 44 14 13 46 u. 39 i8f 26 44 6 7 71 3) and 0 . ; p and j Antares. 5 6 29 34 56 491 36 28 45 564 L. 39 I0§ *7 6 5 751] S 20. 0 24 17 i35 ix 29 21 21-I- 21 18 U. 38 494 28 11 6 77 • P and 0 :> back Obs. F - 21. 0 55 32 149 13 3 15 t t n 571 U. 39 T 9 2 9 40 6 76 1 p and 0 : j back Obs. 5 29 35 58 48 48 t 38 84 43 84 L. 39 30 3 74f ; p and a ' Aquilae. 5 48 26 42 6 26 f 28 42 494 L- 39 35t 3 74f 5 and Spica M. n - ; - 2 Z- 5 7 15 72 28 8 t 3° 55 i 28 23! L- 40 364 4 74 ' p and Spica j L - 27. r 3 32 1 ir 9 43 52 t 18 534 32 48 U. 40 10$ 37 5if 6 71 p and 0.1 13 49 0 119 37 3 22 °4 3° 154 U. 40 37 5i| 6 71 p and 0. : 3 - 28 . 12 51 3i 107 12 40 12 44 474 U. 39 47 i 38 3i 6 7 2 p and 0 . 13 10 27 107 6 33 15 364 43 26 U. 39 5°i 38 3i 6 72 p and 0 . S -- 29. 14 13 2 94 27 12 28 26 s 44 594 U. 39 174 124 39 3i 6 73 p and G. 14 43 44 94 16 48 34 224 41 15 U. 39 39 4 6 73 p and 0 .1 n Z 0 - 16 4 40 81 55 35 5 1 22-^ 37 284 u. 37 34 39 57 6 73 p and 0 . h July 2. 18 10 52! 58 23 22ij 70 3 2 r 33 554 U. 34 i84 4 72 p and q . O -- 3- 13 43 11 4-8 39 S 8 29 9 5b 284-U. 33 Ott 42 32 6 70 | P and 0 . j n - 14. 21 5 4 s 65 28 23 26 3i* 1 1 I04 Spithead, 6 56 | P and 0 . ; %* It must here be observed, that all altitudes are put down as they were observed with Had- | ley's Sextant, from the ship's deck, and consequently are to be corrected for the semi-diameter of ' the object, the refraction, and dip of the horizon, which, on board the Adventure, was about 3' 50". The lower limb of the Sun was always observed -, but as this could not be the cafe with : respect to the Moon, I have distinguished these Observations, where the lower limb was observed by the letter L, and those where the upper limb was observed by the letter U. Where the cha- d raster f occurs in the column of distances, the apparent time at the ship was got from the altitudes of the Sun taken next immediately preceding the distances, and of course the longitude put down is the longitude of the ship at the time when those altitudes were taken. The character % signifies that the apparent time at the ship was got from the altitudes of the Sun next immediately following: Where neither of these are found, the time was obtained from the altitudes of the Sun or Star taken with the distances.
A Z I M U T H S OF THE SUN's CENTER, Taken with an AZIMUTH COMPASS, TOGETHER WITH The ALTITUDES of his Lower Limb, Taken at the lame Time with H ad le y's Sextant, For determining the Variation of the MAGNETIC NEEDLE, By Mr. WILLIAM BAYLEY, and others, On Board his Majesty's Sloop Adventure. 3 A

ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS. 181 1772 . Altitude of the Sun's L. L. Magnetic Azimuth of the 0 's Center. Variation West. 2 O O 0 O" Latitude North. Longitude West. Observers, Remarks. O 0 0 * 0 * O ' h J"iy 18. 13 567- N. 51 34 W. 22 2 I 3 46 33 7 50 % --* 2 3- 18 4*4- S. 77 4i4 E- 22 14 3 40 43 11 15 ? Aug. 24. IO 224 N. 45 23 W. 24 15 1 39 30 11 52 r 3- -3 5-4 N. 58 174 W. 19 33 4 29 14 17 3° $ 4- Amplit. N. 37 45 W. 18 20 2 28 28 18 5 s 5- 11 24 N. 59 584 W: 16 45 3 27 28 18 3° it 6. 12 46 N. 91 474 E. 14 9 4 24 42 *9 20 s - 7 ' 8 214 N. 62 20 W. 13 42 3 23 4i 19 35 h - 1 8. Amplit. N. 34 0 W. 16 524 I 21 48 20 10 18 404 N. 92 45 E. 12 58 3 20 42 20 40 O 9- 16 2 74 N. 62 464 W. l6 16 3 20 0 21 0 F 18. 18 464 N. 69 5 W. 9 ni 2 12 48 20 45 8 --- 19 15 29 S. 88 324 E. 9 16 2 IO 50 19 40 " 24. 13 38 N. 68 414 W. 12 2 3 6 20 14 30 % -- 27. 26 344 N. 69 64 w. 12 10 3 4 9 10 46 r -- 28. 13 64 S. 82 124 E. 16 29 4 3 20 8 39 i? -■. 29. 9 474 N. 9b 334 E. 14 5 ° . 3 2 47 6 55 v Sept. 3 I# 17 134 N. 98 74 E. 16 24 2 2 4 5 40 Mr. Fannin. $ 1. 16 524 N. 95 20 E. 12 48 3 1 29 6 22 it -- 3- 14 394 N. 97 74 E. 14 8 4 0 49 9 20 1 ? - : 4* l 9 37 N. 70 524 w. 12 IO 4 0 50 9 36 i? --- 5- lZ 26 N. 69 64 W. 14 29 3 0 57 9 52 1 Amplit. N. 69 0 W. 14 3 2 1 0 56 9 45 I *9 1 N. 99 25 E. 15 47 3 0 40 9 20 o 6. >3 294 N. 70 55 E. 13 0 3 0 3i 9 17 South. D *- 7- 17 45 S. 80 50 E. 14 56 3 0 10 9 35 & - 8. lZ 19 S. 81 25 E. 14 1 5 0 36 10 27 8 9- i7 30 S. 81 39 E. 13 51 4 1 40 11 5 1 it .. IO. 14 §8 s. 82 15 E. 13 1 2 2 46 11 20 * L - - 12. 13 204 N- 75 334 W. . 9 27 3 4 22 13 58 I --- 14. 14 47 N. 73 274 W. 11 33 2 6 43 14 37 16. Amplit. N. 76 0 w. IO 56 1 6 43 14 37 S 11 14 N. 75 45 W. 7 55 1 9 54 15 57 Very good. --- 19. 17 494 N. 78 354 W. 5 30 3 14 9 18 42 Mr. Rowe, Amplit. N. 84 30 W. 4 23 1 14 10 18 43 Mr. Rowe. r 21 . 20 -74 S. 87 15 E. 4 29 3 18 22 20 3° ? - 25. Amplit. S. 86 '5 E. 2 9 1 23 55 22 5° i? -- 26. Amplit. N. 92 30 E. 2 3° 1 24 28 22 45 o 2/. Amplit. N. 94 0 E. 1 32 1 25 17 22 3° Oct. 11 50 S. 8 8 40 E. 1 S 2 2 25 18 22 3° it I. 14 394 S. 82 53 W. 3 44 4 27 28 18 0 1773 East. 8 Jan. 6. 14 11 S. 47 20 E. 22 3° 5 60 26 27 30 O . 10. 18 2 5 t N. 75 30 W. 3 s - 14 Mr. Fannin. A compass made '7 46s N. 77 35 W., ■ 2^ 47 4 02 34 40 [ Mr. Bayley. by Gregory.
182 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS 1773 - Altitude of the Sun's L. L. Magnetic Azimuth of the 0's Center, Variation West. 2 0 0 O Latitude South. Longitude East. Observers. Remarks. c> 0 O cr O / O ' O Jan. ro. 18 25s 17 46I N. 74 67 W. N. 75 30 W. ; 2 7 35 [ 3 4 62 14 34 40 1 Mr. Bayley. 1 Mr. Fannin. A Knight's com pass made b> Adams. Mr. Bayley remarks, that the four preceding Observations were made in consequence of their finding that the variations, observed on board the Resolution, differed from those observed on board the Adventure; and he says that Knight's Compass stood on the fore-part of the quarter-deck, and that made by Gregory on the poop N. 75 45 W. - 3) 11. if 39i 27 17 8 56 T S. 32 0 E. 26 14 F - 12. x 9 44t N. 72 i7fW. 26 3 S - i3- 16 54 S. 45 15 E. 3i 5 st - 14. 1 6 9 3.103 45 W. 28 41 14 11 S. 103 0 W. 3 1 3° h - 16. *5 rZ S. 103 22s w. 29 43 29 49 S. 53 8f E. 28 54 ? - 22. 20 33 0 S. 49 6|- E. 33 3° S -- 27. '5 5 3° 55 i Feb. 2. 11 S. 45 267 E. 32 28 st ■ 1 4- 16 r 9x N. 64 10 W. 3 1 22 r .-. 5- l 3 37f N. 69 184- W. 28 55 28 55 29 10 h - 6. 7 34 N. 75 23* W. 28 55 ivening Amplitude. 28 48 0 - 7- *3 23 N. 69 17 W. 28 1 ? 12. 10 3i 5. 49 21 E. 32 3 0 ■ 14. 15 37t N. 58 47 W. 32 i5 9 53f S. 47 4i E. 35 14 st --- 18. 8 33 t S. 51 23s E. 3i 3° h , , 20. 13 S- 59 59t E * 3° 11 O 21. 1 6 16 N. 56 28! W. 29 11 F . 2Z- 3 19 N. 76 40 W. 24 46 ivenir^g Amplitude, 25 17 S st - 1 24. 25. *3 15 4 iN. 65 0 W. 0 IN. 65 25 W. 22 20 22 2> Evening Amplitude. 21 24 15 23 8. 72 n£ E. 23 27 b __ 27. 2 42 |N. 81 6* W. -5 25 Evening Amplitude. 15 5° © __ 28. ri 541 S. 81 6J E. 11 18 K March 3 18 18 N. 73 48 W. 6 26 '3 2I| 3. 91 29 E. 3 9 Halt. ? - 5- 20 391 N. 75 15 E. 2 5 2 6z 40 35 4 o 5 64 15 37 0 7 64 12 37 10 Very good. 2 6 4 4 39 3 ° Good alibi 3 63 57 39 35 Gregory's Compass. 3 63 57 39 35 Knight's ditto. 4 65 0 40 3 Mr. Fannin. C. Furneaux. 6 60 24 47 40 Mr. Kempe. 3 55 5 52 10 8 +8 43 58 53 Very good. 3 49 37 56 57 4 48 32 60 20 48 32 60 20 C. Furneaux. 48 32 60 20 Mr. Fannin. 5 48 9 61 22 Great motion. 48 9 61 30 5 49 7 63 32 3 51 0 71 30 Good. 5 51 5 o 76 35 4 52 O 78 28 Mr. Kempe. 3 52 52 91 48 4 52 20 99 23 4 52 8 100 6 6 52 16 105 10 Great motion. ! 52 16 i05 18 1 52 2 107 27 1 5 i 32 in 12 5 1 32 m 20 4 51 21 HZ 5 3 5 ° 34 118 48 5 ° 34 118 54 4 49 3 ° 124 17 5 45 58 * 3 .° 5 ° 5 45 17 x 3 1 25 4 " 43 46 138 42 3 reat motion, r
ON BOARD THE ADVENTURE. 183 Altitude of Magnetic Azimuth ot' the 0 's Center. Varia- 2 O Latitude Longitude 1773 L. L. East. b n South. Last. Remarks. O / O 0 0 ° ' 1? March 6. to 5 o| S. 94 56 E. I 36 5 43 57 I41 0 Great motion. 0 7 - 8 5 if N. 90 3 f W. I 33 3 43 46 I42 12 * 9 - 23 N. 79 474 W. 7 6 9 43 42 145 20 Amplit. S. 77 10 w. 7 2 1 43 42 145 3 ° s v IO. I 5 ' 25 26 l I 20|- N. 58 S. 89 40 E. 8fW. IO 9 34 6 4 3 43 43 22 23 I47 147 3 ° 30 | In Adventure Bay. 9 - 16. 22 19s N. 62 224 E. 7 45 2 42 5 148 41 8 > 7 - 5 52 i S. 86 43 tW. 6 57 3 41 10 147 50 8 3 8 t N. 74 51 E. 8 45 5 40 57 147 48 ? - 19. 13 11 N. 72 24 E. 6 58 2 39 15 149 46 h 20. " 39 t S. 91 38s w. 8 14 6 39 22 150 40 8 - 24. 21 12^ N. 56 534 E. 11 45 3 39 16 1 57 13 V - 25 - 9 64 S. 88 56; w. 11 18 4 39 26 158 7 7 49 t N. 69 45 E. IO 4 i 4 39 54 i 59 15 ¥ 26. •3 64 N. 86 15 w. IO 53 8 40 13 160 14 h - 27. 8 55 i N. 88 45 W. IO i 3 9 40 1 6 161 16 O -- 28. 14 11 N. 84 9 fW. 11 5 6 40 19 161 40 9 i5i N. 66 25 E. IO 55 6 40 32 162 41 F 3°- 6 35 12 41 3 41 17 165 16 T? April 3- N. 64 344 E. 12 12 5 40 18 i73 10 Off Cape Farewell. O -- 4- 4 53 t N. 51 53 E. *5 2 5 41 2 174 0 In Cook's Straits. v 5- 9 23 N. 87 12 W. 14. 3 7 40 55 174 1 In Admiralty Bay. May. C>^ Charlotte's Sound. 13 3 H 82 41 6 174 It v June 7- 5 2o * N. 39 45 E. 13 1 4 4i 37 i74 30 Off Cape Palliser. 3> 21. 10 44t N. 30 14 E. IO 34 5 44 30 196 17 $ 22. IO 8-rV N. 52 55 W. to 59 5 44 32 196 47 O - 27. 12 27I N. 29 561 E. IO 4 4 42 29 197 55 Gregory's Compass. Knight's Compass. 28, 13 45* N. 28 361 E. IO IO 4 42 29 197 55 D - 13 Sf N. 29 3i4 E. IO 23 6 42 40 198 50 19. 9 8 N. 61 4-1 W. 5 S 8 4 36 20 225 33 5 3i N. 52 54 E. 6 33 5 36 4 ' 225 37 V 22. 5 5i4 N. 69 34 W. 5 59 7 30 46 225 0 6 574 N. 56 194 E. 5 43 7 2 9 33 224 5 D - 26. lo 174 N. 66 264 w. 5 3 1 6 28 54 224 i5 9 374 N - 55 5 2 4 E. 6 0 5 28 0 225 5 8 - 29 12 364 N. 66 17-4 W. 5 33 6 r? 20 223 o 2 I 5 3 8 4 N. 70 55 W. 5 29 £ l 7 20 223 56
184 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS 1773 Altitude of the W * L. L. Magnetic Azimuth of the Cf's center. Variation East. 'Z 0 0 0 L iti- tude South. Longitude East. Remarks. O ^ 0 ' O 0 0 / ? Juiy 30. 11 464 N. 66 57 t W. 5 6 7 26 57 224 54 h -- 3i- 8 11*. N. 7. 13 w. 6 23 5 26 9 22 5 i5 O Aug, X. 12 44s N - 57 384 E. 6 7 6 23 27 226 18 s - 2. 5 22s N. 62 544 E. 5 12 6 22 25 226 55 $ - 3- 6 404 N. 72 3 6 4 W. 4 29 6 2 J 59 227 3 L - 4- 8 24 N. 72 444 w. 4 54 7 21 14 227 18 V - 5- 6 57 N. 73 227 w. 4 6 7 20 28 227 57 $ - 10. Amplit. N. 69 10 E. 4 41 1 >7 19 219 5 4 324 N. 68 284 E. 4 5° 7 17 19 219 5 n -- 12 Amplit. N. 69 0 E. 5 29 x 17 14 215 30 6 104 N. 66 464 E. 5 35 6 17 14 215 26 0 - i5- 7 3 t N. 66 47 E. 6 9 4 17 48 210 50 h - -- 2 1. 15 15 N. 65 564 E. 5 38s 6 17 444 210 35 August. 5 0 29 '7 29? 2 lO 2 7 \ At Point Venus. ? Sept. 3- 10 zoz N. 85 27s W. 6 43 6 16 45 208 5i? Huaheine. h - 4- xi 424 N. 8? 42? w. 7 0 4 16 45 208 5i? Ditto. O - 5- 8 37 t N. 86 2 34 w. 6 14 4 16 45 208 5 n Ditto. Amplit. N. 89 30 w. 6 34 1 16 45 208 5 1? Ditto. 5-- 6. 5 42 t N. 87 337 w. 6 2 6 16 45 208 51? Ditto. -5- 7- 9 451 N. 86 3 2 t w. 6 14 7 16 58 208 32 Off Uliatea. V --- 9 11 49 t N. 86 45 i w. 6 0 6 16 457 208 35 At Uliatea. S - i5- 4 i84 N. 91 5i| w. 6 15 4 16 45t 208 35 Ditto. h - x 8. 12 04 N.89 584 w. 5 50 4 17 23 206 40 10 41-4 N. 78 484 E. 6 12 6 17 36 206 20 © - 19. 13 284 N. 77 45 E. 6 9 5 17 55 205 5 j> ■ - 20. 13 2Ir N. 77 237 E. 7 7 3 18 20 204 40 - I X 15 24 N. 79 344 E. 11 -9 4 25 3 l8l 58 $ - 12 11 25 4 26 53 l8l 1 - *3- 14 41 S. 76 464 w. I X 39 4 17 32 I 80 5° 16 464 N. 78 42f E. 11 28 6 28 24 180 x8 % -- 14 6 174 N. 84 i5i E. 11 53 6 29 48 179 50 O- 17- 10 564 3. 72 12-4 W. 13 4i 6 32 48 180 0 14 47 i N. 78 25s E. i3 i7 4 33 30 l80 2 $ - 20 7 52 N. 84 0 E. 13 16 6 38 54 178 35 n '- 21 r 3 9i s - 73 56? W. 13 4 4 39 18 177 58 Oft' New Zealand. 8 44 4 N. 83 28 4 E. *3 32 6 39 53 177 16 Ditto. ? - 29 so 244 S. 66 35 W. 14 43 6 41 48I 175 58 Ditto. Y Nov. 3 10 29 S. 65 404 W. >3 21 6 4i 18 176 42 Ditto. 4 -- 4 8 57 f 3. 64 4f W. 13 12 6 4i 38 i75 40 Cape Palliser due North.
-Kit*© -O" 1 fc=> -fd -T 1 -3* .fd °" +0 -fd °" W *X ON BOARD THE ADVENTURE lS 5 $ J 773* Altitude of the ©'* L. L. Magnetic Azimuth of the K's Center. Variation East. 2 p b . c "r rn Latitude South. Longitude East. Remarks. O * 0 0 O ' 0 ' N ov. 9. 8 4e S. 87 474. E. 13 12 6 3 8 2 if 178 334 In Tolaga Bay. --- 10. 5 53i S. 86 50 E. H 20 6 3 8 2 if 178 33? Ditto. - i5- l 1 46 N. 91 if E. 13 28 6 38 2 if 178 33? Ditto. -- 16. 9 4-6- S. 60 574 W. 12 46 6 38 53 178 2Z Off New Zealand. Dec. 23. it 15 S. 83 254 E. 14 56 6 42 44 175 0 -- 24. 12 13s S. 54 17s W. 14 59 6 43 22 175 13 J 774* Jan. 10. 22 I2 x 9 0 - S. 91 43s E. 7 30 5 58 12 212 16 - 12. IO 52 S. 57 2if w. 8 44 6 58 45 215 50 -19. 12 16s S. 62 53s w. 7 57 3 59 29 242 !§ -2 l. lZ 541 s. 62 204- w. 12 1 6 60 10 247 25 12 39s s - 83 35s E. 11 4 6 59 47 248 15 -22. 14 554 S. 64 53s W. 11 49 6 59 23 249 42 2 3- 14 J 3f S. 6 4 46 W. 11 4 5 59 i9 252 54 - 24. 10 18s S. 56 41s W. 12 59 5 59 37 256 2 __ 28. H i5f S. 55 -1 w. 22 59 6 61 47 271 50 -29. 14 37f s. 55 264 w. 24 if 6 61 53 276 45 -30. -3 491 s - 53 554 w. 24 40 6 61 3 1 281 55 9 474 S. 45 , 8f W. 2 5 47 6 61 3° 282 0 Feb. 6. 13 26i N. 78 15* E. >9 20 7 59 30 313 0 Knight's Compass. 14 3ii i9 41 2 59 3° 3i3 1 Gregory's Compass. -9. >6 4 s S. 71 544 w. i5 54 6 57 12 318 48 -- 16. ■9 234- S. 89 454 W. 5 57 6 53 55 332 46 11 114- s - 77 44t W. 6 40 6 53 55 332 50 Amplit. S- 53 57 W. 6 35 1 53 57 332 57 -20. 27 9 tV N.72 48 W. 2 14 6 53 21 34' 7 -21. 13 48s N. 88 4 E. 0 50 8 53 16 349 17 West. -22, 11 28 5. 89 35s W. 1 21 6 53 14 350 7 -24. 12 43! N. 88 s7t W. 4 57 6 52 5 1 356 7 -26. 11 7 6 3. 81 13s E. 9 25 6 53 25 2 28 Repeated a day, and rejected 360 degrees of Longitude. -26. 13 304 N - 75 39 t W. 10 4 5 53 34 3 48 March i. 12 26s N. 72 31s W. 12 44 6 53 48 8 21 -- 3* 10 5t N. 71 5 i W. 16 20 6 52 57 12 10 -7- 12 234 N. 66 45s W. 16 54 10 48 15 14 2 10 22 S. 77 26s E. 16 48 647 53 14 0 -12. 6 22 £ ' S. 71 53s E. 19 5i 640 24 15 10 II 7 S. 75 52f E. 19 58 640 24 15 10 -13. l6 25 N. 59 204 W. 20 9 639 3 6 i 15 18 -14. 13 3 N. 61 56s W. 20 52 5j37 2 16 10 - 16. 13 2 9i- S. 71 5 E. 20 49 434 21 .7 32 21 32f 20 33 55 - 1 - 18 23I Cape of Good Hope. April 18. 5 * 6 S. 87 6*- E. 19 43 3 32 57 16 25 - 19. 7 194 3. 89 2 if E. 19 29s 6^ 32 3" 16 3 21. 8 if S. 90 54s E. 18 27 6 j3o 33 13 9
OBSERVATIONS 186 ASTRONOMICAL 1774. Altitude of the ©'" l.l. Magnetic Azimuth of the H's Center. Variation East. 2 O b C Latitude South. Longitude East. Remarks. 0 O / 0 O ' 0 s April 22. Amplit. N. 5b 45 W. IS 54 1 3° 04 13 05 5 58 S. 90 of E 18 8 6 29 27 13 18 " 25- 7 45i S. 93 25 E. 15 37 6 2 5 7 8 40 26. 5 364 S. 92 424 E. 15 14 6 24 2 7 24 L - 27. 5 4i4 N. 56 50 W. 15 6 3 23 3 8 7 4 - ¥ -- 29. 6 24 S- 93 1 3f E - 15 21 6 21 28 3 38 -- 30. 5 444 S. 94 1 E 14 41 4 zo §6 2 45 5 May 2, 5 11 s. 94 04 E. 14 44 5 i9 39 1 21 Amplit. N.87 25 E. 14 25 1 i9 30 0 53 <J -- 3- 3 294 S. 94 5 E. H 15 3 *9 3° 0 53 West. n - 5- 6 8x4 8. 96 40s E. 13 22 4 r 7 58 1 11 r - 9- 6 434 NT. 57 16s W. 12 35 3 14 33 5 9 { L - 11. 6 74 N. 80 474 E. IO 44 6 11 0 9 9 ¥ ■- iZ- 5 244 N. 59 244 W. IO 39 4 8 57 11 i7 7 337 N. 80 287 E. IO 40 6 8 15 11 58 h -- 14 1 z 0? N. 78 45i E. 9 37 4 6 52 13 56 O i5- 7 3 2 N. 78 514 E. 9 5 3 5 33 *5 28 3) - 16. 10 46 N. 78 504 E. 9 3i 3 4 i7 16 56 F 17- 8 12 N. 78 41s E. 8 57 6 2 53 18 44 S - 18. 5 I2f N. 78 34I E. 8 365 4 1 21 49 40 19. 11 364 N. 60 444 W. 8 45 3 0 42 20 10 North. ¥ 20. 7 444 N. 78 254 E. 8 42 3 1 19 20 41 - 24- 8 44f N. 76 48s E. 7 16 6 5 19 22 I? ¥ - 25. 11 20 f N. 76 317 E. 7 27 3 5 50 22 48 <? 3 1 - 15 26s N. 61 28s W. 7 28 fc 6 38 25 20 June 1. 8 564 N. 76 20s E 7 48 i 4 7 4 25 24 ¥ 3 9 74 N. 75 71 E, 6 4 6 i 4 7 34 26 33 v - o. 11 164 N. 73 274 E. § 4 5 9 6 28 33 F - 7- 12 35 i N. 63 40 W. 4 41 4 9 30 29 2 n - 9- 7 207 N. 63 58s W. 4 O 3 12 9 3 1 24 ¥ - 10. 9 4i4 N. 71 234 E. 2 55 5 14 23 33 39 Is - 11. 7 164 N. 64 364 W. 3 19 6 15 4 34 1 F -- 14. 12 124 N. 74 23 E. 4 57 6 20 23 3 6 30 s - i5- 10 55 N. 64 13s W. 4 5 1 5 2 I 13 36 50 " n - 16. 9 444 N. 63 224 W. 5 J 7 5 22 45 37 40 9 384 N. 74 13s E. 5 35 6 23 28 38 *3 T? iS. 9 53 N. 62 134 W. 6 28 4 25 35 .39 14 v - 20 14 35 f N. 62 384 W. 8 20 6 28 14 39 4 15 204 N. 7937 E. 8 11 A 28 57 39 20 $ - 24. 2| N. 60 207 W. 10 7 6 34 42 40 29 ? July a. 5 484 N. 39 484 W. 22 42 5 48 l 9 20 20 -
A JOURNAL OF THE SITUATIONS of his Majesty's Sloop Adventure each Day at Noon, during her late Voyage on Discoveries towards the South; As shewn by the Log, by Mr. Arnold's two Time-keepers, No. i. and No. a. ; and also by Observation. TOGETHER with The LONGITUDES and LATITUDES os the most remarkable Places seen in that Voyage. By Mr. W I L L I A M B A Y L E Y. 3C
f- n r ' r v,V- .W % /,j-f w -r! * ^ - ' ! {'>& " f • * V*
ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS 189 1772. Course. Dill. Latitude North by Lot igitude Well by Retrial kf. Account. Oblervat. Account. Obiervat. No. 1. No. 2. 0 Miles. 0 0 ' 0 ' 0 ' ° 0 ' 0 July 12. 5 ° 214 4 164 Took a departure from E rake's Island. v I 3 - 16' W. 50 6 4 33 t $ ■ 14 S. 454 49 224 4 524 4 484 4 4-4 L l 5 - S. 27-f w. 25 49 0 48 5 o 4 5 18 5 1 14 5 74 V- .. 16. S. 4 ? W. 105 47 33 47 294 7 11 7 6 564 ¥ --. ' 7 - s. 18 w. 68 46 24 46 26 7 4 i 4 7 184 7 1 o| h ■ 18 N. 35 w. 344 46 45 8 i 4 7 39 4 7 2 74 Q .. 19. S. 19s w - 83 45 28 45 20^- 8 46 8 5 7 5-4 V 20 s. 4 T w. 77 44 4 43 56 8 55 8 J 4 t 7 564 F 21 s. 534 W. 44 4 Z 30 43 29 r 9 4 i 8 354 8 I2i L 22 N. 0^ w. * 7-3 43 33 t 43 374 10 34 9 32 8 4 2 t 8 i8i n 2 3 - s. 351 W. 93-7 42 20. 42 16 11 33 11 28 9 594 9 324 ¥ 24 s. 28 w. 156 39 59 40 3 ? 13 07 11 55 11 294 10 554 2 5 - s. 28 w. 156 37 44 37 404 H 45 13 33 12 5 1 4 12 i 4 t 0 26. s. 27 w. *43 35 40 35 32 16 6 14 54 >4 144 13 34 ? 3 ) 27 ' s. 19 w. 114 33 44 33 42 16 50 >5 38 15 24 14 18f $ Aug. 28. s. 49 i w. 81 32 5 ° 32 48 18 7 16 55 16 i °4 15 2 5 v O 2. w. 32 o 4 16 29 16 564 1 5 494 v ' 3 - s. 23 5 i 4 27 524 27 53 ,6 52 17 194 16 94 9 l w. 116 16 12 16 12 21 45 22 5 ° 22 1 94 20 4 °T 9 12. Sa 3 °t w. 754 15 7 22 244 23 25 22 484 21 6| rorto rray a in St ■Jago. 14 54 2 3 29 h -*- i 5 - 5 . 304 E. 74 13 48 22 48 22 48 22 3°4 20 334 © 16. S. 7 E. 86f 12 22 12 22 22 37 22 3 ° 22 204 20 20-7 r " -- 1 i 7 - s. 45 E. 45-3 r 1 50 22 04 21 57 21 474 -9 44 t $ ' 18. s. 344 E. 51.6 11 20 11 25 21 28 21 214 20 424 18 384 s 1 19. 3 . 364 E. 47-7 10 47 20 59 20 52 19 124 >7 64 ■4 20. s. 84 E. 73-7 9 34 20 48 20 41 19 344 r 7 2 74 ¥ " - 21 . s. 33 t E. 32 9 7 8 41 20 12 20 06 18 587 .6 484 l? 1 22. s. 474 E. 68.2 7 55 7 52 19 22 19 16 18 74 15 644 O ■' - 2Z- s. 394 E. 764 6 56 6 534 18 3 ° 18 24 16 3 i >3 5 °i v ' "■■■ 24. s. 66f E. 73-8 6 24 6 244 17 24 17 18 14 354 12 2 of "? 25 . s. 55 i E 554 5 524 5 54 l6 38 16 32 13 494 I I 3-4 5 * 26. s. 59 E. 64? 5 12 5 10 15 43 J 5 37 11 46 s 9 294 if- 27. s. 4 _i E. 74 ? 4 16 4 14 >4 54 14 48 10 56° 8 34 -r ¥ h 28. 29. s. s. 63-r 654 E. E. 744 62^ 3 3 44 *34 3 3 4 i *54 13 I 2 47 50s 13 12 4 ' 44 f 9 8 22! 474 6 5 41 j- 444 I ft appears from the ' Watch that a cur- O 30 . s. 614 E. 754 2 38 2 40 I I 44 11 38 6 28s 4 54 , rent has set for le v ? Sept. 31 - 1. s. 8. 84s 45 ? E W. 62.6 49 2 1 34 59 2 1 344 59 IO l I 42s 18 10 5 3 6 § 46 T 4 4 184 367 1 2 48- o 4 . verai days Rail, 01 nearly so, and the I Observ. confirm it.
astronomical observations 190 1772 Course. Dist. Latitude North by Longitude West by Remarks. Account. Ohlervat. Account. Observat. No. 1. No. 2. 0 Mile§. 0 0 0 0 ° t O L Sept. 2- s. 53 W. 59-6 1 23 I 23 12 54 6 34 i 4 2 4 i 4 2 4 8 4 n 3 - s. 72 W. 74 i I 0 I 01 *3 16 8 32 6 35"8 4 54 ? 4 - s. 81 w. 64I O 49 O 5 1 14 20 9 31 7 56* 5 244 h - 5 - N. 691 w. 15 7 O 56 O 561 14 35 9 42 8 o8ch 5 374 O - 6. 8. 64 E. 48 O 35 O 36 -3 53 9 21 7 I 2 a" 4 324 D -- 7 - 8. 72 E. 43 O 23 O 231 13 !3 8 44 6 25 - 3 564 South. South. F -- 8. 3 . 574 W. 764 0 18 0 18 14 18 9 49 7 2 8i 4 5 8 4 L 9 - 8. 54 W. 62 0 54 0 54i i5 08 10 39 8 24* 5 524 V - 10. 8. 3- W. 72 1 56s 1 57* i5 45 11 16 9 ' 45* 7 ii 4 ? -- 11. 8. 31s W. 72 2 5 8 2 594 16 23 11 54 to 55* 8 19* - 12. 8. 22L w. 75-6 4 10 4 1 of 16 S 2 46 11 47i 9 9* i O . iZ- 8. 41 |W. 72s 5 3l 5 5 17 40 ig 34 12 46 b 10 6* I D - 14- 3 . 32 w. 9 8 i 6 29* 6 29s 18 33 14 27 13 47* 11 7* I he Ship Const F - "5 8. 214 W. 106 8 9i 8 10 !9 12 "5 06 14 264 11 46I- 'W. of her rec- S - 16. 8. 22| W. 94 9 36 9 37 19 474 -5 41* 15 204 12 394. koning. A - 17- 8. 28^ w. 95 10 59 10 of 20 34 16 28 16 64 13 28s ¥ - 18. 8. 25s w. 95? 12 26 12 26-J 21 154 *7 3 8 i 16 41* 14 oii b 19. 8. 29I w. "3 14 25 14 4* 22 134 18 36 17 39* 14 42* 0 20. 8. 24 tW. 99 15 35 *5 34r 22 564 >9 14 18 17 S 15 13* 3) - 2 1. 8. 231 w. 111 '7 08 -7 9f 23 3 8 19 56 18 564 16 13* J -- 22. 8. 15 W. 93 18 39 18 39* 24 34 20 36 '9 26; l6 35* s 2 3- 5. I04.W. 88 20 03 20 64 24 20 21 32 19 564 17 3* ■4 24. 8. 10s W. 83I 21 29I 21 2 Si 24 36* 22 01 20 174 17 24* r 25. 8. 3UW, 96 22 48 22 50 25 30 22 55 20 4°i 17 59* T) 26. 3. 4* E 83I 24 11 24 13 25 21.4 22 46.4 21 3°4 18 13* 0 27. 8. 24 E. 27 24 38.6 24 40 25 20.2 22 45-2 21 224 17 36* v 28. 8. 22 k E. 52 25 25 25 28 24 5 8 22 23 21 1 *T 17 23* 9 ■ . 29. 8. 57 E- 8ri 26 13 26 1 3 23 42 21 52 l 9 504 16 3* s 3°- 8. 674 E. r>9 27 0 26 5 8 21 40 19 48 17 4i4 13 53* •4 Oct. 1. 8. 5 74 E. IOZ 27 23 27 25 *9 43 18 13 r 5 324 11 4i£ A S.W.swell. ? 2. 8. 77 r E. 42^ 27 34 27 33 18 57 i7 07 14 354 10 29* h 3 8. 68f E. 85? 28 °5 28 04 J 7 18 16 02 12 534 8 45* Ditto. 0 -- 4- 8. 644 E. 128 28 59 28 5 8 * 15 °9 14 II 10 2 7 t 6 8 4 Ditto. 5 -- 5- 8. 88f E. 771 29 01 29 0 >3 324 12 21 8 474 j ___ 6. 3. 84 W. 4 2| 29 434 29 42 t i3 42 12 29 8 544 8 --- 7- South. 96 3i 18 3 1 18 '3 40 12 29 9 7 t - - 8. 8. 94 E. 85 3 2 42 32 424 -3 23 12 12 8 504 ¥ -- 9- 8. 42 E. 94-3 33 5 1 f 33 524 12 07 10 56 7 56-5 h - IO 8. 67 s E. 93 34 27 34 2 8i 10 24 19 13 5 254 O -- Ik. 8. 78 E. 63I 34 4i 34 41 9 8 6 50 4 5-4 r -- I 2 8. 73 E. 24 8 37 6 04 8 37 6 04 3 334 F -- - 13- 8. 71 E. 5 8 l 35 08 35 09 7 3 ° 6 0 2 2 5 t - s 14. 3 . 77t E. 92s 35 3 ° 35 29 s 5 34 4 04 0 20' East. 4 - 3 . 88 E. 95-6 35 33 35 33 3 25 r 5i East. 1 554 ? - l6. X . 8 2-7 E. •142 1 35 *3 35 14 0 27 1 07 5 c64
ON BOARD THE ADVENTURE 191 Did. Latitude South by Longitude Eait by 1772 . Account. Obfervat. Account. Obervat. No. 1. .Remarks. 0 Miles. 0 ' 0 ' 0 ' O 0 ' b Oct. I 7- N. 81 E. no 34 57 34 57 k 1 41 4 49 7 2 54 O ' ' 18. N. 79 l E. l 35 34 33 34 33 4 27 7 35 10 91 5 -- 19. N. 784 E. 58 34 22 34 21 5 27 8 35 10 584 + 0 25- N. 58 E. 138 35 27s 35 26 11 47 i 24 08 17 24? 5 *-- 26. N. 59 l E. 85s 34 42 34 43 *3 16s 15 37 18 324 & 1 " ■ ' 27. N. 47 E. 82 33 47 33 47 '4 29x 16 50 19 33i 8 - 28. N. 79! E. 49 33 39 38 38 15 28L 27 49 20 234 V 29. s 78I E. 68 33 5if 16 49 29 °9 21 434 Nov. D 2 3- s. 40 W. 494 34 33 34 34 *7 4 *t 27 384 $ s 24. 9 \ E. 464 35 18.6 35 20 5U >7 474 *7 Both days the ship 1 was S. W. of Acc. 9 it 25- 26. s 224 w. 204 w. 123 1134 37 39 13.6 37 39 14 16 16 52s 16 15 394 ^ 42? j s. ? 27. s. 244 E. 67 40 40 01 16 374 16 34? 28. s. 5 W. 54 40 55 40 55 16 3U 16 28 G 29. 1 W. 74-4 42 42 8 16 36. 16 2 6f 9 5 Dec. 3°- s. 531 E. 30 42 27 42 26 0 94 -7 39 27 544 1. s. 5 E. 484 43 15 43 14 >7 20 17 53? 18 5i s g 684 E. 33 43 26 18 3 t 18 364 *7 574 It ■" ' ' 3- S. 104 E. 63 44 29 44 28 18 20 18 40 29 2 34 ? " ' ' 4- s. 1 if w. 79 45 45 45 44 "7 584 18 2 18 44 b 5- s. 144W. 87 47 9 47 9 17 27* >7 32 18 10s 0 6. 8. 2 E. 734 48 23 43 23 17 304 27 344 18 134 v -- 7- 8. 14 W. 86.i 49 48 49 49 17 O? 2 7 4 17 43? s 8 . N. 834 E. 284 49 46 *7 371 27 414 18 2 1 ? s -- 9- 8. 72 E 12 49 5° 49 4 7 55? 18 0 21 05? "4 -- 10. 8. 5 IW. 774 5 1 3 5i 4 *7 43? 27 48 20 55? Thefirst Ice Island. ¥ - 11. S. E. 48 51 52 50 5 1 5° 18 6? 18 x 1 21 43? Ice Islands. b 12 . s 234 w. 62 46 i7 2 74 27 23 54i Many Ice Islands. s. ,s. 0 -.- iZ i4 E. 65.2 53 5i - [ 7 2 lf 27 264 21 Li Ditto. 3 ) - 14. 254 E. 68 54 52 54 52 i 7 484 18 264 21 58i Ditto Penguins. 9 27 23 54? Ditto ditto. 9 - 18. ! s. i. . 10 E, 204 55 1 Cloudy. 19 5% 24 26 24 >3i Ditto ditto. 1? - 19. N. 444 E. 36 54 34 Cloudy. 19 494 25 10 25 30? \ S. S. E. current, O -- 20. N. 73t E 79 54 11 Cloudy. 22 H 27 27 27 46s j ran L a mile an h. D 21. N. 84 s E 41 54 7 54 7 23 H 28 27 29 404 Many Ice Islands. F '22. 8. 2:4 E. 49 54 50 54 52 23 40 ? 29 1 3° 144 Ditto. 9 2 3- S. 5°4 E. 51.6 55 25 55 24 24 52? 30 12 3 2 2? Ditto. V 24. S. 54 W. 66 56 3 ° 56 29;- 24 42I 30 02 32 0 Log 48 feet to2 g'% ? -- 25. •s 1 20i W. 90 57 54 Cloudy. 23 . 46 ? 29 6 Ditrof b 26. ! s. 1 67 4 w. 94 58 30 58 3° 21 41 26 22 27 32? Little Ice. 3 o
ig 2 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS Course. Dist. Latitude South by Longitude East by 1772. Account. Obscrvar. Account. Obtervat. No. 1. Remarks. 0 Miles. O 0 ' 0 ' 0 0 o Dec. 27. N. 824 W. 64k 58 21 58 21 l8 481 24 6 25 164 ) 'Current 3. S. E. 4 of a mile an hour. D -- 28. S. 73 W. 62 58 39 Cloudy. l6 531 22 11 23 214 Many birds. F - 29. S. 6 5 l W. 74 59 10 59 ii 14 39! 19 57 21 74 Little Ice. S -- 3°- S. 754 W. 46 59 22 59 22 13 7! 18 25 17 274 Many Penguins. % 1 773* 3i S. 59iW. s. 744 w. 65 59 55 Cloudy. I I 27? l6 45 21 74 Log 48 feet to 2 6 "' ? Jan. 1. 55 60 9 Cloudy. 9 421 15 0 14 024 Log48feet 1029"*. Many Penguins. b 2. S. 55 W. 62 59 15 ^9 20 7 544 IO 44 10 584 O - 3- S. 84I E. 40 59 22 Cloudy. 9 44 I I 244 12 184 Much Ice. 3) - 4- N. 764 E 95 59 0 59 1 12 44 14 24 15 87 Many whales. $ -- 5 S. 76 E. 151s 59 37 Cloudy. 16 544 19 14 20 84 Swell from N. W. tz 6. S. 794 E. 130 59 594 59 59 48* 23 8 Ice. 1; - - 7- S. 73 E. 120 60 34 60 364- *4 4it 27 1 28 584 N. W. swell cont. ? 8. S. 704 E 130 61 18 61 19 29 07 3i 20 33 127 Log 48 feet to29"*. h - 9. S. 7 6| E. 67 61 36 61 35 32 64 33 26 35 174 Much ice. © - 10. S. 55 E. 38 61 56 61 55 32 104 34 30 37 14 Watered at the ice. D -,- 11. S. 224 E. 90 63 19 63 19 33 264 35 464 38 184 Yet much ice. F - 12. S. 304 E. 65 64 14 64 14 34 404 37 O 39 34 i Took up more ice. L - 13- East. 16 64 14 64 i3t 35 174 37 37 39 404 ^Much ice and few V - 14. N. 264 E. 16 6z 584 6Z 59 35 344 39 41 39 57 r birds. ? - 15- S. 2/4 E. 2 3 i 63 35 63 35 35 544 40 03 40 164 Many ice islands. 1? - l6. South. 57 64 3 2 64 32 35 544 40 °3 39 574 Many birds. D - l 7 - S. 2i-W. 124 66 36 66 34 35 444 39 53 39 494 Stopped by the ice. 3) - 18. S. 54 E. 37- 2 65 58 65 584 35 534 40 02 39 574 Many ice islands. : F - 19. N. 15 E 9/4 64 2 44 64 294 3& 494 40 584 40 454 Ditto. s - 20. N. 374 E. 38 63 594 Cloudy. 37 494 154 4" 4i4 40 474 Ditto. at - 21. N. 294 E. 844 62 454 Cloudy. 39 43 14 42 104 Ditto. ? -- 22- N* 414 E. 100 61 3i 61 33? 41 304 45 294 44 i4 Ditto. b --*-- 2 3- N. 45 E. 131 60 o4 60 2 44 374 48 364 47 84 Ditto. o - 24. N. 45 E. 138 58 24 S 8 2 3 i 47 484 5i 474 50 20? Ditto. r - 25- N. 76f E. 6 9 58 8 Cloudy. 49 584 53 574 52 304 Ditto. 3 - 26. North. 46 57 22 Cloudy. 49 584' 53 57 5° 494 Ditto. s - 27. N. 17 E. 56 56 28 56 291 50 2 74 5 l 55 52 184 Ditto. V' - 28 N. 18 E. 124 54 3 2 54 3 2 5i 334 53 01 53 124 Ditto. ? - 29. N. 171 E. j 30 52 2J 52 27|- 52 364 54 04 54 iZ4 Ditto. b - 3°- N. 45 E. 80.7 5i SO Cloudy. 53 54 t 55 22 55 334 O Feb. 3i'- N. 36} E. 52 50 48 50 48 54 434 56 n| 58 3°! 3) i. N. 124 E. j 27 48 44 Cloudy. 55 2/4 56 55 59 241 1 Much sea weed and <? - 2. N. 804 E 71 48 28 48 32 57 35? 59 3 61 34! ^ 8 - 3 - S. 40s E. 17s 48 45 48 44? 57 51? 59 19 62 15? many divers. li 4 S.. 634 E. 78 49 1 7 49 15 55 5i? 57 39 61 8! S - 5- N. 684 W. 18s 49 3 49 4 55 9? 60 14 60 27! A N. W. iwelk b - 6 N. 5 E. 67 47 58 48 0 55 17L 60 22f 60 35 % Q - 7* S. 6S| E. 0 . . k 0. 45 E. H5 48 53 48 53 58 384 63 6 63 48! 3) 8. ' ii 4 | 5° 14 Cloudy. 60 43? 65 I I 65 53 % Lost the Resolution,
O^+o^wtOi^d^x o*t"0'T'-K)-fi"xo*"0'T l +"-F4 1 " 0 "fe"0'T'+o-pd 1 3 52 17s too -7 104 -64 104 58L Sea-weed. N. 834 E. 89 52 Si 52 7 102 49? 106 49 107 46s N. 7"t E. 128 5* 40 1 5* 4*7 106 162 no 16 m 282 N. 8iJ E. *47 5 1 18 Cloudy. 109 52 s 114 2 --5 19 ? N. 78 E. 150 50 47 Cloudy. 1 *3 59 l i-7 59 119 i6| N. 81 E. 150 50 24 50 24 11 7 591 121 49 123 9 \ Rock-weed. N - 53 i E. *34 49 04 49 02 120 5 *i t24 4 * 126 1? N. 524 E 150 47 29 Cloudy. 123 5'i 127 4 - 129 1? Log 48 feetto29"f. N. 56 E. 128 46 18 Cloudy. 126 253 130 -5 132 10| Sea-weed, and the N. 42I E. 121 44 48 44 487 128 25? I32 -5 -34 20| water discoloured. N. 674 E 123 44 04 44 3 t * 3 * °? I36 10 -37 > 7 i N. S8f E. 144 43 58 43 4 / i *34 201 >39 30 141 ©i N. 844 E. 9.4 43 47 43 467 136 3 °t 141 40 143 08 \ N. 87 E. 110 4 3 4 * 43 4 °t *39 02| 144 37 -45 27L East. 69.6 43 43 43 45 t 140 39 ? *45 07 -47 03? Saw land. Mew Stone . off Van Die- man's Land [43 48 140 27 The South West Point of 43 38 Van Dieman's Land ' -45 55 The South East Point of 1 Van Dieman's Land ■ 43 38 140 59 Adventure's Bay, in Van Dieman's Land >43 23 -47 Zo N. 764 E. 3 6 43 40 43 40 '41 25? -47 20 -47 571 N. 5 8f E. 26 43 26 43 2 3 141 55 ? -47 30 148 46^ 'J. 71 E. 38 43 07s 43 08 148 -9 148 26 -49 33? N. 11 E. 4i 44 4t 44 1 47 56: '48 -49 41 ? North . 82 40 2 2 40 2i-| -47 56 148 08 -50 02 i N. 174 E. 63 39 21 39 21 148 22 148 33 i -50 -Si East. 77 39 2 2 39 22s 150 01 150 -3 152 o? N- 85s E, 69I 39 l6f 39 16 * *5i 43 -5- 43 -53 3 °l S. 784 E. 59 39 284 Cloudy. 152 47 152 58 -54 47 i 73 r E. 70 i 9 8 i Cloudy. -54 *4 -54 25 -56 -4?
IS+ ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS 1773 Course. Dist. Latitude South by Longitude Ea;t by Remarks. Account. Observac. Account. Qblervat. No. 1. 0 Miles. 0 0 ' 0 ' 0 0 ' K March24* N. 79 E. 5 8 39 59 38 57 k "55 2 6\ l 55 37 -57 12 } n - 2 A. S - 75-1- E. 95 39 21 39 20} *57 2 6| -57 31 \ -59 04? • r - 26. S. 65 E. 108 40 06 40 6f 1 59 33 -59 44 i6x 02 1 h - 27. S. 8z E. 65-5 40 14 40 14s 160 55 161 06 162 3-i o - 28. East. E. 20 40 x 5 40 i 5 t 161 21 161 32 163 12-1- D - 29. S. 64s 61 40 42 40 42 162 33 163 °7 164 351- $ - 3°* S. 72 E. 100 41 l 3 41 13 164 39 164 49 166 35 i 5? - 3 1 - S. 77 E. 90 41 33 41 33 166 37 166 47 168 34 -i Ship S. of account. of April 1. N. 89 E. 80 41 Si 4 1 3°-.V 168 25 168 35 170 22} ? 2. NT. 82 E. 97 4i 17 Cloudy. 170 35 170 45 172 3 H Cape Farewell, in New 38s 1 if Zealand 40 172 1? 3- N. 50I E. 57 40 41 40 40 171 35 171 45 l 73 46; O 4- N. 66 E. 59 i 40 1 6 40 16 172 45 1 73 -5 l 75 -34 r - S- S. 41s- E. 48 40 52 40 52| ■ *73 27 -74 07 l 75 574 F -- 6. 41 34 Queen Charlotte's Sound, in New Zealand > 54 1 73 55 Cape Palliser, in New Zea- -75 land Ui 35 0 D June 7- E. 7 4i 3f 41 3 t 174 OI -74 01 -74 01 * - 8. S * 394 65 41 531 41 53 t Q4 5i -74 5- -74 5- L - 9- S. 5 4 E. 99 42 5Q 42 50 176 49 176 49 176 49 - 10. S. 56'- E. "5 43 551 43 57 t 1 79 7 i -79 26 -79 16 ¥ - n. s. 5 6 ?. E. 87 44 45 Cloudy. 180 47 181 06^ 181 06 b -- 12. S. 62s E. 129 45 46 Cloudy. 183 30 183 49 183 49 A N. W. swell. G * 3 - S. 25 E. 47i 46 29 Cloudy. 184 0 184 7t 184 3-4 5 -- 14. S. 69s E. 45 46 46 46 43 J 185 07 185 i 4t 185 3°4 A N. E. swell. F -- 15- East. 37 46 44 46 45 " 186 01 186 08 186 24 S 16. S. 24s E. 4i 47 26 Cloudy. 186 25 18 6 32 -86 48 Ditto. % - - !?• N. E. 58 46 28 46 J 9i 186 25 186 32 186 43 Ditto. s - 18. N. 714 E. 96k 45 49 45 49i 188 37 188 44 188 I l Ditto. % - 19. N. 66 E. 94 45 11 45 I*T 190 39 190 46 189 55* Sea-weed. G -,- 20. N. 694 E. 119 44 3 1 44 30 -93 18 -93 25 192 34 Log 454 s-1° 29"!. S - 21. N. 784 E. 64 44 18 44 *7 194 45 -94 52 194 64 Log 48feett02 9~t. F - 22. S. 78 E. 68.9 44 31 44 32! 196 25 196 32 -95 50 a - 2 3- s. 844 E. 55 44 37 44 364 197 42 -97 49 -97 -3L st - 24. N. 6z E. 56 43 42 Cloudy. l 97 45 -97 52 -97 -7 ? - 25. N. 28 W. 33 43 23 Cloudy. l 97 23 197 3° 196 55 1? - 2b. N. 7 f w. 9 43 05 43 054 197 *3 196 40 196 34 o - 27. North. 42 42 25 42 234 1 97 13 T 196 3 ° 196 34 2 - 28. East. 41 42 24 42 234 198 091 198 04 -97 46 F - 20. S. 481 E. 33 42 46 42 454 198 44 -99 0 198 24 Many whales and birds. ? - 30. S. 77 E. 62 43 0 42 59i 200 09 200 25 199 36 st July 1 . S. 854 E. 84. 43 06 43 05 4 202 °3 202 -9 201 16 ? - 2. N. 854 E. 65 43 0 42 59i 203 32 203 48 202 56 h 3- S. 76 E. 58 43 H 43 *34 204 52 205 03 204 23
ON BOARD THE ADVENTURE. 195 1773 - Course. Dish Latitude South by Longitude East by Remarks. ! Account. Observat. Account. Obletvat. No. 1. O Miles. 0 0 t 0 0 ' 0 * O July 4- S. 40 E. 56 43 56 43 571 205 42 205 54 205 IO r 5- N. 71| E. 104 43 24 Cloudy. 207 57 208 09 205 OI s t>. N. 2of E. 84 42 05 42 05 208 37 208 17 208 07 s ■ - - 7- N. 364. E. 60 4i 17 41 17I 209 25 209 05 209 O V 8. S. 62 E. 90 4i S9i 5 r 57 21 I 8 210 49 210 52 r -- 9 S. 62s E. 88 42 38 42 38^- 2 12 52 212 33 212 57 Log 48 feet to 29^4- 10. S. 62? E. 130 43 38 43 3 8 t 2-5 27 215 36 215 46 A Western swell. 0 ii. N. 851 E. 93 43 30 43 3 °t 217 39 217 23 217 584 s 12. N. 78 i E. 82 43 13 43 i 3 t 2ig 3t 219 i9 299 50 $ 13- N. 71 E. 46 42 58 42 57 t 2 20 32 220 20 220 56 8 -- 14., N. 82 E. 54 42 S" Cloudy. 221 44 221 32 22 2 08 V -- 15 N. 244- W. 184 42 33 Cloudy. 221 35 221 23 22 1 59 ¥ 16 N. 47 E. 1024 4r 22s 4i 23 223 124 223 04 223 55 b - i7 N. 434 E. 1Z8 39 42 39 42| 225 15 225 04 226 22 A S. W. swell. O - 18. N.104 E. "3 37 5i 37 514 225 40 22 5 29 226 36 Swell from the South. L - 19 N. 5I E. 81.3 36 3o 36 31 225 50 225 39 226 55 Log 48 feet to 29^4- F - 20. N. 2 § W. 7i 35 19 35 I 9* 225 47 225 36 226 484 S - 2l. N. 91 W. i54 34 27 Cloudy. 225 19 225 08 226 20 V -- 22 N.15s W. 108 3i 03 3i 034 224 46 224 35 225 34 Log 48 feet to 29"^ r - 2Z- N. 114 W. 104 29 21 29 2It 224 24 224 i3 22 5 19 h 24. S. 73I W. 75 29 43 Cloudy. 223 0 222 49 223 55 O 25. S. 86 W. 44i 29 46 29 46 222 16 222 05 223 11 L -- 26. N. 41 E. 70 28 53 28 §34 223 09 224 14 224 09 s - 27. N, 10? W. 59 27 55 27 55f 223 20 225 i4 225 10 8 ' 28. N. 671 W. 33 27 42 27 424 222 57 224 39 224 58 ■4 --- 2 9. N. 71s W. 4i| 27 29 27 29I 222 r3 223 42 224 0 ¥ - 3° N. 644 E. 58 27 °3 27 034 223 15 224 44 225 i7 Tropic birds. h - 3 1 - N. 26 E. 48 26 20 26 194 223 40 225 09 225 464 Ditto. O Aug. 1 N. 23i E. 82 25 10 25 ii 224 48 22 5 57 226 34 3 ) - 2 N. 64 E. x 18 23 14 23 i44 224 42 226 11 12 6 44 Ship N. E. ofaccount. 7 M I- 213 434 215 x 1 2l6 46 E> 14. S. 884 W.j 110 i7 17 17 174 211 48 2 L 2 50 215 08 3 E
Iy6 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS '773- Course. Dist. Latitude South by Longituc e East by Remarks. Account. Observat. Account. Observation. No. 1. 0 Miles. 0 ' O ' O 0 0 Aug. Oshaburg Island. 17 491 211 47 0 * 5 - s. 74 W. 106 *7 46 *7 46 § 210 °3 211 05 213 28 r 16. Welt. 44 17 46 209 17 2 10 42 212 40 Oaitipeha I ay, in Otaheite. 17 45 210 3 6 i Point Venus, in Otaheite. '7 29? 210 2 71 u Sept. 2. N. 57 W. 5 ° 16 59 ? 2O9 381 Owharre Bay, in Huaheine. 16 45 209 0 Ohamaneno Harbour, Uliatea. in | 16 45 t 208 34 -?° ? - i 7 - 16 5°i 2c8 11 208 11 208 °3 h - 18. S. 68 f W. 7 i l 7 16 '7 I 5 r 207 02 20 7 02 2c6 43 © - 19. s. 6 9 t W, 67 l 7 40 l 7 394 205 54 205 54 205 30 D 20. S. 70J w. 62 18 01 18 204 50 204 50 204 35 77 56 1 76 °5 176 14 O 24. 8. 36 W. 47 4 ' 3 ' 41 3 1 1 77 29 '75 28 *75 40 3) 25- 3 . 30 w. 52 42 16 42 16 176 49 174 58 1 75 10 a 26, 3 . 36 w. 2 I 42 33 42 324 176 38 *74 42 '74 48
ON BOARD THE ADVENTURE. 197 1773 Course. Dist. Latitude boutti by Longitude fc.a by Remarks. Account. Oofei vat. Account. Ool-rvat. No. 1 . 0 Miles, 0 0 0 O * 0 * s O tt. 27. S. 22fW. '7 42 17 42 i 7 r 176 29 '74 33 '74 39 n 28. East. 27 42 18 42 184 '77 06 '75 'o '74 5° ¥ 29. N. 3'4 E. 32.6 4 ! 5 ° 41 5 ° T 1 77 29 *75 33 '75 0 h 1 ' ' 3 ° - 29 42 06y '73 22 Queen Charlotte's Sound. 4 - 5 J '74 7 i n Dec. 2 3 42 25s '75 10 '75 10 '75 '3 ¥ -- 24. 8. 124 W. Z6 43 0 43 of '75 0 '75 0 '75 0 Log 48 feet to 29"^. j? 25 - 8. 22-3- E. 107 44 - 39 44 39 '75 56 '75 56 '75 59 Many grampusies. G 26. 8. 34t E. 79 45 44 45 42s 176 59 ' 7 b 59 176 57 Many seals. v -- 27 S. 3 6 f E. 52s 46 25 Cloudy. '77 44 '77 44 '77 42 f Many birds. F -- 28. 8. 397 E. 52 47 06 Cloudy. 178 324 - 178 32s '78 3 ' Many birds and leals. S -- 29. 3 . i6z E. 64 48 °7 48 07 1 178 574 : ' 7 8 57 f 178 5 i The {hip S. E. of Acc. % -- 30 . 8. 17 E. 90 49 34 Cloudy. '79 37 '79 37 '79 3 ' 1 Pengwins, drift- ¥ -- 3 '- 3. 8 E. 64 5 ° 36 Cloudy. '79 50 >79 5 o '79 44 92 54 192 42 Whales. V 6 8. 62 E. 124 56 27 Cloudy. '95 4 ' 196 07s '95 55 f Saw rock-weed. ¥ 7 - 3. 76 E. 122 56 56 Cloudy. '99 '9 1 99 42 f 199 3 °f
ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS 1 774 - Course. Dist. Latitude South by Longitud e East: by Remarks. Account. Obiervai. Account. Observation. No. 1. 0 Miles, 0 0 ' O 0 0 T? Jan. 8. S. 8 3 > E. 91 57 64 57 54 202 06 202 424 202 47 O -- 9- 5 . 77I E. 108 57 29 67 284 205 25 206 014 206 06 Many whales and birds. 3 > IO. s - 73 E. 94 57 66 Cloudy. 208 I It 208 48 208 524 F - ii. S. 79* E. I 24 58 18 58 18 212 IO 212 46 212 5 l 4 Three Ice Islands. s -- - 12. 3 . 74 1 E. 86 58 40 2 58 404 214 43 215 20 2 I 5 574 Several Ice Islands. n * 3 - S. 83 E. 4 1 58 45 i~ 58 45 ? 2l6 2 2l6 39 2I 7 16 Ditto. ¥ - 14. East. 37 58 46 Cloudy. 2I 7 13 217 5° 2i8 27 h .. 15- S. 864 E. 123 58 48 58 484 221 11 22 I 48 223 02 o -- 16. S. 89 E. 120 58 5° 58 50r 225 °3 225 40 2 26 54 Much ice. 3) 17. S. 824 E. 118 59 05 59 5* 228 54 22 9 3 1 232 08 Log 48 st to 29"*. F - 18. s. 874 E. 1 55 59 11 59 'I 234 0 234 37 237 29 Saw rock-weed. S -- 19. S. 8 4 t E. 136 59 25 59 2 4 t 238 26 24I 05 241 434 A western swell. V -- 20. S. 781 E. 140 59 52 59 5 2 4 243 0 245 39 246 *74 ¥ 21. 3. 68 E. 44 60 °9 60 094 244 26 247 20 248 O5 A N. W. swell. 3? 22. N- 55 E. 66 59 3 * 59 3 1 246 *3 249 07 250 06 A S. W. swell. O - 2Z- N. 79f E. 86 59 *5 59 *54 249 0 251 54 252 54 Ditto. r> 24. 8. 81 E. 108 59 33 59 33t 252 32 255 26 257 02 Ditto. $ i 25. S. 69! E. IZO 60 18 Cloudy. 256 36 259 3° 261 06 Many birds. § - 26. S. 74 E. 108 60 48 Cloudy. 260 08 263 02 264 33 27. S. 77 E. 110 61 *3 Cloudy. 263 5i 266 45 268 i6f A N. W. swell. ¥ ■ 28. S. 74 E. 120 61 34 6i 344 267 26 27O 50 2 73 49 Ditto. 1? - 29. S. 87* E. *34 61 50 61 50 272 40 275 34 2 78 34 Ditto. Q - . 30- N. 83* E. 146 61 34 6i 344 277 46 280 40 284 03 Porpoiles and birds. D ZI- N. 86 E. 130 61 20| Cloudy. 282 17 288 17 289 *7 Ditto. F Feb. I. N. 82s E. 110 61 IO 61 10 : : 208 04 292 04 292 21 A westerly swell. x __ 2. N. 79 E. 130 60 45 60 444 29O 28 296 28 298 *5 Ditto. 3- N. 86* E. *45 60 36 60 364 295 21 302 47 303 * i*t 3 1 /T Ditto. ¥ 4- N. 884 E. 126 60 32 Cloudy. 299 40 307 06 307 3t>4 Birds innumerable. T? - A- N. 834 E. 116 60 18 Cloudy. 3°3 32 3*° 58 3ii 2 84 A N. VV. swell. Q 6. N. 70s E. 424 60 04 Cloudy. 3°4 53 3 12 *9 312 494 Many Ice Islands. J> -- 7- N. 3 5st E 57 59 *7 59 174 3°5 584 3*3 24T 3i4 54 Many birds : Ice. & --- 8. N. 524 E. 76 58 30 58 3° 307 54 3*5 20 3i7 20 The westerly swell S _- 9- N. 534 E. 118 57 20 57 20:: 310 52.7 3 18 18.7 320 18.7 continues. if- 10. N. 684 E 60 56 58 56 58 312 37-l 320 03.I 322 °3 Many Penguins. ¥ - 11. N. 65 E. 84 56 22 Cloudy. 3*4 58.2 322 24.2 324 24.1 Red-headed Peng. h , -. 12. N. AI E. 7*4 55 28 Cloudy. 316 21.7 323 47-7 325 47-6 Birds. © 13.|n. 56 E. 90 54 38 Cloudy. Ji8 30.7 325 57-7 327 56.6 Yet a westerly swell. v -- i4.;N. 77 E. 71 54 22 Cloudy. 320 33-2 327 59-2 329 59-* Many seals: Ice. idN. 84 E. 106 54 11 Cloudy. 323 33 2 ^30 59 332 59 Some seals. s 16. N. 79i E. 46 54 02 54 02:: 324 50.2 332 16.2 336 9 No. westerly swell. Is 17. S. 855- E. 99 54 10 Cloudy. 327 38 335 04 338 57 Sea-weed and porpoises. ? 18. East 46 54 12 54 12:: 328 57 33 b 23 340 16 Swell from the N. 6 19 N. 784 E. 60 54 0 54 0 330 38 338 04 34i 57 S wel 1 from N. IN 1 . VV. © 20 N. 664 E. 93 53 20 53 20 333 01 340 27 343 5° Sea-weeds, birds and ice. v 2 f S. 884 E. 108 53 24 53 2 3i ^36 02.3 3-13 28 346 50 Seals, porpoiies and ice. 22 N. 81J E. 92 53 11 53 **4 338 34 349 37 349 3 2 4 S. W. swell: Ice.
0^-K>4d"co"wO'T'+o ON BOARD THE ADVENTURE. 199 s V ? h 1774. Course. Dist. Latitude South by Longitude East by ' Remarks. Account, Observat. Account. Observat. t^o. J. O Miles, 0 ' 0 * 0 O " 0 ■ * Feb, 23. -24. -25. - 26. N. 86 E. N. 804. E. S. 74* E. S. 79; E. 107 IOI IO9.8 IOO 53 04 52 46 53 16 53 35 Cloudy. 52 46^ 53 16 Cloudy. 34 * 3 i 344 19 347 14 349 58 352 34 355 22 358 17 0 03 35 2 2 9 f 355 43 358 38 1 09 A Western Lvell: ice. Ditto. Ditto. Ditto. Having made a complete revolution round the Globe, Mr. Bayley here rejected 360°, and repeated h , February 26, to make his day correspond with the day at Greenwich. 1? -26., o -- 27. v -28. <T March I. S-2. n - 3- r-4- b 1 5* O - 6. v - 7- F - 8 L-9- U -10. r -- 11. b-12. o - - 13. v-14. $ -15. ? -- 16. % -17. O April 17. D - 18. $ -19 8 -20. % -21. -- 22. -23. -24 -25. -- 26. -27. -28. -30. May i. ' v-2. r - 3- L-4- n -5. __ N, 8 si E. no 53 2 7 53 27 353 3 3'o8 4 094 Porpoises and ice. S. 7 f | E. 86 53 54 53 53r 355 2? 5 27 6 284 Penguins and ice. 5. 384 E. 19 54 03 Cloudy. 355 48 5 524 6 54 Severalice islands. N. 73 E. 67 53 44 Cloudy. 357 36 7 4i 9 19 Seals and birds. S. 75 f E. 79 54 °4 54 044 359 46 9 5 1 11 28 Ice. N. 52 E. 76 53 17 53 *7i 1 27 11 40 13 20 Whiles and porpoises. N. 8* W. 364 52 42 Cloudy. i 18 11 31 iz , l A Western swell yet. N. 191 E. 124 50 45 5° 44? 2 26 12 39 14 44 ShipN.E. of acct. N. 564 E. 88 49 55 Cloudy. 4 17 14 3° 16 35 Many porpoises. N. 4 i E. 83 48 32 48 324 4 26 14 014 16 48 Ice and sea-weea. N. 15 W. 57 47 Z6Z 47 Z6i 4 03 iZ 52 14 274 16 40 Some ice islands. N. 12 E. 119 45 41 Cloudy. 4 39 17 124 N. 8 E. 148 43 14 43 l 3 i 5 07 *4 5° 17 35 The Western swell yet. N. 15 W. 89 43 48 4* 484 4 36 14 19 17 04 N. 19 E. 33 l 41 16 Cloudy. 4 5 1 14 34 17 33 N. 19! E. 84 39 59 39 59 5 23 .15 H 18 13 13 564 N. 131 E. 152 37 32 37 324 6 07.7 16 04 North. 121 35 32 35 3'i 6 07.7 16 47 18 54 NT. it| E. 551 34 37 34 374 6 21.3 16 51 19 14 ShipN.W.ofacct. N. 63 E. Cape of Go 53 od Ho 34 13 pe. 34 124 33 554 7 19 3 17 42 18 224 20 174 N, 45 W. 60 33 l 3 33 124 17 31 17 31 17 29s 5 1 T w - 37 32 49 Cloudy. 16 54 16 54 16 A2A S. 704 W. 4 6 33 4i 33 44 16 07 16 07 l6 12 Log 48 f. to 29^4. N. 3 E. 3* 32 34 32 334 16 09 16 07 16 14 N. 484. W. 120 3 i *3 3 l 134 30 *64 14 22 14 22 14 23 N. 50s W. 90 30 16 13 02 13 0 13 07 North. 60 29 15 29 144 13 02 13 Z 3 t 13 08 Drift-wood. N, 47 W. N. 514. W. '33 27 44 27 444 11 21 ii 43 11 27 146 26 13 26 iz4 9 H 9 36 9 17 N. 39 W. 97 24 57 24 574 8 05 8 28 8 04 ShipN.W.ofacct N. 44 W. 97 23 48 23 47 i 6 49 7 l 2 6 30 N. 40-4 W. 77 22 49 22 494 5 56 6 19 5 42 N. 45 W. 79 21 53 21 53 4 55 5 18 4 17 Vlany porpoises N. 52 W. 5i 21 214 21 214 4 "4 3 31-2 2 404 3 37 and birds. N. 46 W. 43 20 51 20 514 3 384 2 54 A Western swell. N. 43t W. 40 20 22 20 224 3 09 1 57 2 234 N. 37 W. 63 .9 32 19 324 2 28 1 13 1 54 N. 70 W. 16 19 27 19 274 2 12 0 50 1 42 N. 304 W. 63 '8 47 18 474 I 2l| 0 0 0 55 Log 48 feet tozg"^. 3 F
200 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS 1774- Course. Dist. Latitude South bv Longitude Ealt by Remarks. Account. Observat. Account. Observat. No. 1 . 0 Miles. 0 ' 0 ' 0 ' O O ' West. r May 6. N. 49 w. 101 l 7 4i l 7 4i O 024 1 29 O 37 West. West. h -- 7- N. 5U w. 84 1 6 49 16 49r 1 °5t 2 37 1 45 o --- 8 . N. 44 w. 84 s *5 48 *5 4"r 2 0 6f 3 38 2 49t j> - 9• N. 45 w. 84 14 49 Cloudy. 3 074 4 54 4 05 $ --. IO. N. 484 w. 130 *3 23 *3 2 3t 4 474 6 34-3 5 42 8 - it. N. 484 w. 123 12 02 12 02^ 6 21.7 8 ©8.5 7 19 Flying fish and n - 12. N. 44 w. 110 10 43 10 43 7 39- 4 9 25-9 8 36 dolphins. s - iZ N. 464 w. 128 9 14 9 144 9 *3 10 59 10 06 Log 48 s. to 29"!. h - 14- N. 494 w. 120 7 55 7 554 10 45 12 *7 11 42.7 © -- *5- N. 494 w. 126 6 33 6 33 r 12 21 x 4 15 *3 11 " -- 16. N. 474 w. 117 5 14 5 144 13 474 15 46 14 40 -- 6 N. 6 9 w 4 1 8 14 8 14 24 *7 27 54 24 0 7- N. 43* w 8-4 9 -5 9 144 25 x 5 28 5i 25 08 • 8 8. N. 44 w. 103 10 29 10 284 26 3° 30 06 26 28 ShipN.W.ofacct. : % - 9- N. 39 r w 106 11 5 4 11 5if 27 36 3i 12 27 38 Ditto. , ? TO. N. 4*4 w. 117 r 3 18 *3 184 28 56 32 3 1 28 59 Log 48 fee t to 2 9". h II N. 43 w. i>5 i4 42 14 42 30 16 33 5i 30 11 o - 12 N. 2 K-- w. 112 16 23 16 23! 3* 05 34 44 3i 28 Log 48 f. to 28"! D - r 3- N, 25 w. 89 17 44 17 44f 3i 44 35 37 32 21 $ 14. N. '5 w. 92 19 4 3 -9 i3f 32 09 36 16 32 29? 8 *■5- N. 124 w. 98 20 49 20 494 32 30 ?6 38 33 11 T? - 16. N. 2li w. 100 22 22 22 214 33 10 37 29 33 56^ ' S --- 4 7- N. 244 w. 9i 23 45 23 45t 33 5°l 38 23 34 47t 1? __ 18 N. 1:2 w. 86 25 ° 9 25 °9f 34 10 39 09 35 "9 Sea-weed.
ON BOARD THE' ADVENTURE. 201 Dill Latitude Nor th by Longitude West by ! 1774 " Account. Oblervat. Account. Observat. N O. I. Remarks, . 0 Miles. 0 O O 0 * . 0 o June 19. N. 74 W. 85 26 33 26 334 34 21 39 11 35 20 Ship N, E. of Acc. D 20. N. 7 E. 87 28 0 28 34 I I 38 58 35 06 Sea wefed. S - 21. N. 6 E. 78 29 17 29 171 34 02 39 24 35 37 Ship N. E. of Acc. L ■-- 22. N. 8 W. 99 3° 55 30 55 34 18 39 36 35 24 n 2Z- N. *3* w. 107 32 39 32 39 t 34 46 40 04 35 38 Ship N. of Account. ? - 24. N. 121 w. 106 24 23 24 234 35 10 40 29 36 12 Ship N. E. of Acc. j? - 25' North. 93 35 56 35 5 6 ? 35 10 40 29 36 02f Log 50 feet to 29". o 26. N. 12I E. 78 37 12 37 ii4 34 52 40 2 I 35 54 Log 48 feet to 29". D 27. N. 5°t E. 54 37 45 37 454 34 °3 39 32 35 06 Ship S. W. of Acc. $ - 28. N. 70 E. 24 37 53 37 53t 33 38 40 10 34 18 Ship S. E. of Acc. 8 29. N. 36s E. 58 38 40 38 40 i 32 54 39 40 33 36 Ship N. E. of Acc. % 3°- N. 5°k E. 52 39 13 39 13 32 02 39 0 32 3° Ship S. W. of Acc. ? J^y 1. N. 5 H E. 100 40 c6 40 061 30 11 37 24 30 40 Ship ditto. y? -- 2. N. 53 £ E. 75 40 50 40 51 28 42 35 55 29 10 o - - 3 ■ N. 4 o 4 E. 5i 41 32 41 32L 27 53 35 02 27 42 r - 4- N. 58 E. i34 42 44 42 44 25 l 9 32 324 25 o 6 i Log 48 feet to 29''. $ - 5- N. 53? E. i35 44 01 44 01 22 43 29 5 6 1 22 39 S -- 6. N. 47? E. iZ3 45 45 45 45 20 04 27 18 19 5° AW. S.W. swell. % - 7- N. E. 1 61 47 JO 47 10 16 44 23 58 16 27 Ditto. s - 8. N. 67s E. 141 48 °5 48 054 13 27 20 4i 13 24 Ditto. h --- 9 N. 6-4 W. 144 49 09 49 09 10 05 17 19 10 074 Q 10. N. 844 E. 134 49 22 49 2i4 6 4 1 13 55 6 41 D - 11. N. CO C\ E 94 49 27 49 274 4 17 11 31 4 07 - ;Had soundings 80 1 fathom. F - 12. N. t" fa co E. 137 49 35 49 351 0 47-7 8 01 0 05 Log 48 feet to 29". East. East. ? - rZ- N. 79 E. 164 50 06 50 06s 1 53 5 20 2 50 ! Ram Head N. W. about 6 leagues. *** In the preceding Journal, the Course and Distance, put down in the second and third columns, are those made good for the whole day ; after variation of the compass, lee way, heave of the sea, currents, &c. are allowed for, in the judgment of the navigator. The fourth and sixth columns contain the Latitude and Longitude of the Ship deduced from that course and distance on the noon of the day mentioned in the first column; being the noon of the civil day, or that where the nautical day ends, and the astronomical one begins. The fourth column contains the Latitude observed at the same noon, and the seventh contains the Longitude of the Ship as carried on from the last lunar observation by means of the Log, or dead reckoning, as it is usually called. It would, perhaps, in general, have been better to have carried it on by the Watch (No. i.;) but it may yet be done, by any person who wishes to have the Longitude of a particular place more correct, or corroborated by a greater number of observations, as the apparent times of most of the lunar observations were deduced from altitudes taken for the Watch. And it may here be observed, that the Longitude of any place, obtained by reducing a number of observations to that place by means of the Watch, will gene-
202 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS. rally be had pretty true, notwithstanding that the rate which the Watch was then going at may differ something from that made use of; nay even if the rate of the Watch's going alter in that time, provided that all the observations made in an equal extent of time before and after making that land be used, and reduced separately thereto, and the mean of the two Longitudes thus obtained be made use of; as it may reasonably be presumed, that although the Watch's motion be not quite uniform, the acceleration or retardation of that motion will be nearly so, and of course cause no material error in a fortnight, during which interval several observations were generally got, at least when they were near any lands, or where the exact situation of the Ship was of any consequence. The two last columns contain the Longitude of the Ship as deduced from the two Watches, No. \. and 2. so long as No, 2. went with any tolerable degree of regularity; afterwards, the last column is discontinued. "i 1 i jjifi 13 *
METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS, MADE On Board His Majesty's Sloop ADVENTURE, In her late Voyage on Discoveries towards the South, By Mr. W I L L I A M B A Y L E Y. 3 G
/ . " fii'' ' ... 1 , . '< • 1 1 * * < I & f :^y; W"'" ". Ai i^k " 51 ? MAW
ON BOARD THE ADVENTURE. 20J 1772. Morn Noon. Thermometer. Latitude North. Longitude West of Greenwich. Barometer. XT ft 3 0 5 0 0 ' r July 1 7 - 67 46 26 7 4 i 4 2 9'9 ^8 h -18. 68 46 46 8 2 29,87 69 0-19. 65 45 20 8 46 29,9 64 D - 20. 6 Si 43 56 8 55 30,0 67 F -- 21. 6z 43 29 f 9 10 29,9 67 8 - 22. 65 43 37 t 9 32 3 °>° 66 V -23. 67 42 16 11 28 20,08 68 ¥ -. 24. 66 40 3 ! 11 55 3 °j °3 67 h-2 5 - 68 37 4°4 *3 33 30,15 70 O-26. 7 o 35 3 i 4 14 54 30,05 72 5 -27. 69k 33 43 *5 38 29,9 ?2| F - 28. 72 32 48 16 55 30,01 74 i 8 '- 29. 72 At Madeii 'a. 29,88 75 V -30. 73 30,1 76 ?- 31. 74 32 331 l 7 5 30,26 751 t> Aug. 1. 73 29,92 76 O - 2 7 i 32 04 16 29 29,69 73 D ' " 3* 72 29 431 16 52 29,8 73 $ ,- 4. 74 28 404 18 3 2 9,77 73 8- 5- 73 27 534 18 26 29,87 73 % - 6. 73 26 6| 2 30,0 73 ?- 7. 76 24 9 r 9 27 30,05 75 1? -- 8. 74 2 2 lo£ >9 56 2 9,95 76 Q- 9. 74 20 84 20 5 °i 29,6 751 5-10. 74 18 10 22 11 30 30,0 77 ° b 15. 791 13 48 22 48 30,0 81 O - 16. 78i 12 22 22 30 29,9 80 r - 17. 781 I I 50 2 i 57 29,95 81 F - 18. 77 I I 2 54 21 214 2 9,95 81 8 - 19. 79 IO 47 20 52 30,0 77 % -- 20. 76 9 34 20 41 2 9,95 78 z ¥ -- 21. 79 8 4 1 T 20 6 29.9 co J? -- 22. 79 7 55 19 16 29,9 79 O - 23. 8of 6 53 § 18 24 30,05 80 5 - 2 v- 79 6 2 45 i/ 18 29,9 79 § - 2 5 781 5 53 i 16 32 29,95 795 8 - 2 b. 78| 5 :o 15 37 29,95 781 If. -27 78 4 * 3 i 14 48 2 9,9 78| Even. Thermometer* Winds, Weather, Le. 66 N. W. Brilk wind and clear weather. 65 S.W. byW. Ditto, squally. 65 N. W. Moderate wind, and cloudy. 64s W. N. W. Brisk wind, with rain. 65 5 West. ) CE. S. E.i Hazy weather. 65 N. W. Moderate wind, and cloudy. 66 North. Brilk wind, and fine weather. 67 N. E. Ditto. 68 Ditto. Ditto, cloudy. Moderate wind, ditto. 69 Ditto. 71 Ditto. Ditto. 73 North. Ditto, fine weather. 73 Brisk wind, and squally. 74 Variable. Gentle breezes, with rain. 74 Ditto. 75 Ditto. 72 f East. Brilk wind, and squally weather. 7 2 i N. E. Ditto, and fine weather. 73 N. E. by E. Ditto, and cloudy. 72 JN.E. ? is. w. 5 Moderate wind, and ditto. 72 E. by N. Ditto. 73 Ditto. Ditto. 73 E. by S. Brilk wind, ditto. 74f N. N. E. Moderate wind, and fine weath. 77 Ditto. Brilk wind, and cloudy. 78 Ditto. Ditto. 78 Ditto. Moderate wind, ditto. 79 Ditto. Brilk wind, with rain. ?8| Ditto. Cloudy, with drizzling rain. 79 Ditto. Ditto. 78 East. Little wind, and cloudy. 80 8. W. Ditto, and drizzling rain. 77 Ditto, cloudy. 771 S.W. by W. Ditto, heavy rain. 77 i N. W. by N. Ditto. 771 j East. 1 r 8. W. ; Squally, with rain. 79 Ditto. Brilk wind, and cloudy. 78 Ditto. Ditto. 78 8. by W. Moderate wind, and cloudy 79 8. W. by 8. Ditto, and fine weather. 78 8. W. Ditto, with rain. 78 S. W. by 8. Brilk wind, and cloudy.
206 METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS 1772. s h O r $ s "4 S h 0 r $ s v ? t? o 1 $ L ■4 S o D F L 4 ? 1? O Sept. Aug. 28 -29 -30 3 * 1 2 3 4 5 - 6 . 7 8 . 9 10 11. 12 13 14 *5 16. 17 18 19 20 . - 23 -24 25 -26 -27, Morn. Neon. Even. Longitude Ther- Latitude Weil of parn s- Ther- mome ter. North. 0 ' Greenwich. O ^ meter. 5 0 3 mo- meter. 78 3 4 oi 1 3 41 29,8Z 77 78 77 78- 3 I 5 L 12 444 29,8 78 76 2 4 °i 11 38 2 9'75 78 77 78 7 Si 2 40 10 36-I 2 9>95 79 77 1 59 5 464 2 9>95 78s 78 77 t 24 6 344 2 9 > 951 78 78 77 1 01 8 32 29,8 771 771 74 0 51 9 3 1 29,95 77 76 76 0 56 9 42 29,95 771 76s 77 0 36 9 21 29,8 77 l 76 76 0 23 South. 8 44 29,9 76 75 76 0 18 9 46 3 °,° 76s 74 f 75 0 55 10 39 29,8 75 74 1 574 11 16 3 °,° 77 73 74 2 594 11 54 3 °,° 76 73 73 4 io 4 12 46 30,0 75 72 s 73 5 5 13 34 3°,°5 75 73 73 6 29 14 27 29,9 75 73 72 8 10 *5 06 29,8 75 72s 73 9 36 15 4 ii 29,75 74 f 73 73 n 0 16 28 30,05 73 § 73 724 12 26 i 7 38s 3 °, 1 74 73 72 14 05 18 36 30,0 73 72 73 15 36 19 14 29,95 73 72 73 17 09L 19 56 30,05 73 72 73 >8 394 20 36 3 °, 1 73 f 72 72 20 64 21 32 3 °, 1 72 72 72 21 30 22 OI 30,0 72s 7*4 7 i 12 50 22 55 2 9,9 72 7 o 4 7 i 24 13 22 46 30,0 72 71 24 40 22 45 29,9 72I 7°4 Winds. s. s. w. Ditto. Ditto. S. by W. South. Ditto. S. by W. jSouth. S. W. Ditto. S. by W. by E. Ditto. S. S. E. Ditto. S. E. S. by E. S. S. E. S. E. Ditto. Ditto. S. E. by E. S. E. S. E. by E. Ditto. Ditto. E. S. E. S. E. by E. S. E. East. E. S. E. Weather. Brisk wind, and cloudy. Moderate, and fair weather. Ditto. Ditto, and cloudy. Little wind, and fine weather. Ditto. Ditto, and cloudy. Brisk wind, and fine weather. Little wind, ditto. Moderate wind, and cloudy. Ditto. Ditto. Ditto, Ditto, Ditto. Ditto. Ditto. Ditto, Ditto. and fine weather, and cloudy. and fine weather. i Squally weather. y Brisk wind, and squally. | Brisk wind, and fine weather. below the surface of the sea, where it remained up : On examination, he found it stand at 68°. 16 A, at 70" in the water at the surface, and at 72 0 E. N. E. N. E. North. N. E. W. S. 5 8. W. I 8. 8. E S. W. by funk jrh of an inch in the squalls. v- 28. 7 * 25 29 22 23 30,2 72 71 F- 29. 7 l 26 *3 21 50 29,95 7 * 67 L- 30. -69 26 58 19 48 29,85 7°4 7 * if Oct. I. 67 27 25 18 *3 29,95 69; 69^ r - 2. 67 27 33 -7 22 30,0 684 65 so .- 3 - • 66 28 04 16 02 66 64 and he was 6' drawing it The same Thermometer stood in the open air. Brisk wind, and cloudy. Squally, with rain. Moderate wind, and fine weath. W. | Squally, with rain. J Little wind, and fine weather, ransactions, vol. Ixv.. p. 343.)
ON BOARD THE ADVENTURE 207 Morn. Noon. Even. Longitude td H 1772. Thermo- Latitude South. West of Green- w 3 3 Sf 3 Thermo- Winds, Weather, &c. meter. wich. 0 Z meter. O ' 0 ' O Oct. 4. 64 28 59 13 46 30,1 64 57 S.W. Squally, with drizzling rain. r>- 5 - 5 6 29 O 12 21 30,05 6of 56 South. Brisk wind and cloudy. Little wind, and fine weather. § -- I J- 58 35 09 6 0 3 o ,"5 65 56 N.E. 1 L 14 - 57 35 29 4 04 ^0,25 60 58 N. E. Squally, with rain. -4 - I 5 . 58 35 33 1 5 i 30,0 63I 57 N. E. by N. .?-16. East. • Brisk wind, and cloudy. 59 35 14 1 07 29'95 62s 57 North. h-17- 0-18. 56 53 34 57 34 33 4 49 7 35 30,05 30,1 58 57 54 531 West. S. W. | Brisk wind, and cloudy. v-19 54 34 2i 8 35 30,0 56 53 S. S. E. Brisk wind, and drizzling rain. $ -20. 56 34 45 8 07I 8 37 30,2 60 54 East. Little wind, and fine weather. S - 21. 57 35 3 1 t 30,2 59 55 East. J % -22. r-LZ. 56 57 36 48 37 09. 9 06 9 45 29,85 29.95 59 59 57 f 57 East. N. E. by E. J Brisk wind, and cloudy. h -- 24. 0-25. 54 541 36 39 - 35 26 n 43 l 14 08 30,1 30,25 57 5 6 f 571 57 West. S. S. E. ■ Brisk wind, and cloudy. v-- 26. 57 34 43 15 37 30,05 58s 5 6 £ 8. S. E. Moderate wind, and cloudy. F-27. 57 33 47 16 50 30,0 61 60 S. 8. E. Ditto, fair weather. L -28. 60 33 38 17 49 30,0 62* 59 l S. W. Ditto. If.-29. 60 33 5 i 19 9 29,85 60s 58 N. W. Ditto. ¥- 3 °- 56 In Table Bay, at the Ca] pe of Good Hope, Lat. 33 ° 55'1 S. Long. 18° 23'f E. O Nov. 22. 33 55 18 23 60 N. by W. Brisk wind, and fine weather. "-23. 34 34 17 42 65 N. W. Strong gales, and flying clouds. & -24. 35 20 i 7 5 i 63s S. E. Ditto. -25. 62 37 *4 16 53 30,0 63 62s S. E. f E. Ditto. 7 53 18 36 29.9 29,5 51 49 46 47 W N W 7 Ditto ' ' j strong wind, with rain. 4 - Z. 47 44 27 18 32 29,4 48 46 N. W. Strong wind, and fine weather. ¥ *- 4. 44 45 23I 18 02 29,5 45 42 W. N. W. Gentle gales, and fine weather. * 5 - 44 47 09 . . 17 3 1 L' ' 1 ' * 29,75 46 40 N, by W. Ditto, and cloudy. 1 3 H
208 METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS Morn. Noon. Even. Thermometer. Latitude South. Longitude East of Greenwich. Barometer. Thermom. Thermometer, 0 0 36 48 23 *7 34 2 29'95 36 35 38 49 49 > 7 - 04 2 9"7 42 38. 38 46 l 7 54 29,8 394 36 33 4 - 49 18 12 29,35 34 35 3 '4 5 1 04 18 40 2 9,55 35 34 t 3*4 5 i 50 18 40 29,35 324 33 324 Cloudy. 19 0 29,3 34 .32 304 Cloudy. 20 12 28,85 3 1 30 304 54 53 22 °4 28,55 32 30 28 55 02 22 30 28,55 3*4 3 oi 3 * 55 9 22 22 28,55 3 is 3 if 3 1 55 21 23 30 28,65 3 a 3 °f 3'2 §4 59 24 40 28,7 3*4 3 °f 3 ° 54 34 25 10 2 8,5*5 3 'i 3 n 32 54 11 27 27 28,55 34 - 3 l i 32 54 07 28 27 28,6 34 31 f . 32 54 52 ■29 01 28,6 3 *f 32 - 32 55 24 Zo 12 29,15 3 33 • 32 56 -29 30 02 29,35 34 32 3 i 4 57 ' 54 29 06 29,1! 3 'f 3 i 3 i 58 3 ° 26 22 29,35 32 3 i 32 58 21 24 06 29,5 35 32 1772. o 3) i S % r h Q D F 9 % ? Q D F L A ? h 0 Dec 6 . 7 8- 9 10 1 3 14 *5 16 *7 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 2 5 26 27 Wind. Weather, &c. w. s. w. North. N.W. by N. N.W.byW. N. by W. N. N. W. W. by N. W. N. W. N. byE. Ditto. W. N. W. N, W. N.N. W. " j N, W. ( a"d ] r N.N. E. ^ N. N. W. j W. N. W. Ditto. r N.W. byW. E. N. E. Soujth. ! Ditto. N.W.byW. Gentle gales, and sine weather. Strong gales, with rain. Ditto, cloudy. Brisk wind, with snow. Little wind, with snow. Ditto, cloudy. | Ditto, and much snow. j Light airs, and fair weather. | Light airs, and foggy, with snow, | Light wind, with snow. Strong wind, with snow. Little Wind, and flying clouds. Brisk wind and cloudy. - - Little wind, and cloudy. Little wind, and fair weather, ace os the sea ; it lay at that depth 2 5 minutes, and was seven minutes drawing up, when it was found to stand a 1.33%: the 1 same thermometer stood at.32 irt the water at, the surface, and at 314 in the open air. Brisk wind, with snow. Little wind, with snow. Ditto, with rain. Strong wind, and cloudy. Brisk wind, with snow. Ditto* and fair weather. Strong wind* with snow. 1 Moderate wind, and cloudy. Ditto, and thick snow. Ditto, and rain... j > Moderate wind, and fair weather. D -- 28. 304 58 33 . 22 x x 29,55 3 if 3i4 E. by N. $ -;- 29. 3-4 59 11 *9 57 29,1 33 3i East. S - 3°- 32 59' 22 18 25 28,9 34 32 E. S. E. % 3l> 304 59 55 15 45 28,95 \}3 32 S. E. 1773- ) S. S. W. ? Jan. X. 32 60 0 - 13 0 28,8 3 1 32 h -- 2. 3- 59 21 10 06 29,45 32 3if m. byN. 0 --- •3 3i 59 23 1 x 24 29,3 32 3i E,'N. E. S --: 4- 3 2 59 OI 14 14 29,4 33 3$. N. N. W. , F - 5 -33 59 37 19 04 29,35 33 L3 Ditto. § - 6 33 59 59 23 08 29,15 33 33f N..W. by W. n -- 7- 324 60 36 27 1 29,05 34 32 W.N.iW. S 8 Z24 61 20 3i 20 28,95 34 33 Ditto. 6 - 9 324 6.x 36 33 26 28,95 35 33 Ditto. O - 10 324 6i 57 34 30 29,2 34 33 N. by W. r -- 11 324 63 19 35 46 29,2 34f 32s North. <? - 12 33 64 14 37 0 29,35 35 32 S. S. E. $ - *3 .34 64 14 39 43 29,4 4Q 33 S. S. W. 4 14 32 63 57 40 03 29,25 35i 33 5. S. E.
ON BOARD THE ADVENTURE 209 1773 - Jan, Feb. 15 16. 17 18. 19 20. 21. 22 . 2Z- 24. 2 5. 26. 27 28. 29. Zv 3'- 2. 3 4- ■ 5- 6. 7- 8 . 9 10 11. 12 . 13 14. 15- ib. 17- 18. 19. 20. 21. 2 1 23 ' 24- 25. Morn Noon. Thermometer, Latitude South. ..ongitude East; of Green- wich. Barometer. H sr ft 3 3 0 ' 0 34 6 3 35 40 03 29,05 37 34 64 32 39 53 28,9 35 32 66 34 40 02 28,95 32s 33 65 58 40 02 28,9 34 33 64 29s 40 58! 29 ' 1 35 34 63 59 40 4 i 28,8 33 33 ! 62 45 43 14 28,7 33! 34 61 33 45 29 2 9>3 34 ! 34 60 02 48 36 29D5 35 34 58 24 5 s 47 29,3 35 34 58 08 5 2 0 29,15 35 34 57 22 53 57 29,3 34 ! 331 56 go 52 03 29,1 35 33 54 32 53 09 28,1 36 34 52 28 54 12 29,0 37 39 51 3 i 55 22 29,5 40 38 50 48 56 11 29,55 39 4i 48 32 59 °3 30,05 42! 44 48 45 59 l 9 30 D 5 +4 44 - 49 15 59 J 9 30 ,i - 44 43 49 04 57 39 2 9,5 43 ! 40 48 0 60 1 + 29,5 4 if 42 48 53 60 22 29,6 45 43 50 14 . 63 06 29,8 44 44 50 H 65 11 29>5 43 43 50 >7 65 27 28,7 43 39 49 54 66 0 29,4 40 40 50 18 66 1 f 29,9 42 38 §o 41 69 06 29,5 40 37 5 1 °5 72 11 29,6 39 38 5 1 39 r 75 30 29,5 39 ! 37 52 13 79 18 29,6 38 36 52 32 81 22 29,6 371 36 52 54 85 10 29,5 37 37 52 52 88 52 29,5, 40 36 52 38 92 0 28,85 38 36 5 2 - 16 96 56 29,05 3 b 40 52 <5 99 54 29,6 4 i 39 52 29 - 102 49 29,0 38 39 52 17 104 10 2 h ,5 4 *! 40 52 07 106 49 28,5 43 41 5 ' 4 1 1 to 3 ° 2 9,45 45 Even Ther- me- meter, Winds. 33 34 33 33 33 32| 34f 35 341 33 34 34 33 33 34 39 38 47 44 43 43? N. W. 40i N. N. E. 43 421 43 41 40 40 37 39 38 39 37 37 37 38 37 38 40 39 41 J.O Weather, &c. S. E. Ditto, S. E. by E. 8. W. by S. E. by E. Ditto. S. S. E. South 8. by E. N. W. E.N. E. 3. W. by W. N. N. W. N. by W. N. N. W. Ditto. N. by W. N. W. N.N. W. 1 N. N. W. N. W. N. E. N. N. E N. W. by W. N. N. W. Ditto. N. W. Ditto. 1 8. W. by W. J iW. N. W. J Ditto. W. by N. 8. W. W. N. W. s. w. E. N. E. N. W. by N, N. W. W. N. W. -Brisk wind, with snow and sleet. Moderate wind, and cloudy. Strong wind, with snow. Little wind, ditto. Ditto, and cloudy. Strong wind, with snow and sleet. Strong wind, and foggy. Calm, with thick snow. Gentle gales, and fair weather. Brisk wind, and flying clouds. Ditto, and cloudy. Strong wind, with much rain. Brisk wind, with flying clouds. Little wind, with drizzling rain Strong wind, with heavy rain. Lightwinds, withcloudy weather. Brisk wind, and fair weather. Ditto, with slight showers. Light winds, and fair weather. Ditto, thick fog and rain. Strong winds, and much rain. Ditto, and fair weather. Ditto, and foggy. Moderate, and cloudy. Strong wind, with rain. Brisk wind, with snow. Little wind, and fair weather. Brisk wind, and rainy weather. Ditto, and squally. Gentle breezes, and fair weather _ _ Brisk wind, and flying clouds. This evening we saw the Southern lights for the first time : they were so bright that large print might have-been read by their light.
2 10 METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS *773- Morn. Thermometer. Noon. Even. Feb. 26. - 27. -28.I March 1. 2. f - V- F- S - o - J) - L - O- Littlewind, and fine weather, Brisk wind, with rain. Brisk wind, and cloudy. ^ Brisk wind, and drizzling rain. J Moderate wind, and fine weather. | Moderate wind, and cloudy, | Strong wind, with rain. I Brisk wind, and cloudy. Brisk wind, and squally. Brisk wind, and fine weather, . . .S.W. Let down a thermometer to the depth of 140 fathoms, and on drawing it up found it stand at Z6°4" it stood at 64° in the open air, and at 59^4 in the water at the] surface. North. N. by E. North. N. N. W. N. by W. N. N. W. East. S. W. by S. jsr. w. I 5 -- 29. 61 40 42 163 07 30,5 64 62 <? -30. 62 41 14 j 64 49 30,45 64 64 S - Zl. 64 41 33 166 47 30,35 64^ 62 % April 1. 6Z 41 3i 168 35 30,05 634 62 ? - - 2. 62 41 17 170 45 29,7 62 61 h - -- 2. 62 40 40 171 45 29,0 bg 60 G 4- 63 40 16 29,65 66 62 5 -5 63 40 53 56 29,8 614 61 $ --- 0 6 3 4 1 044 *73 3o,-5 61 4 57 | Brisk wind, and fine weather j Ditto. | Brisk wind, and much rain. Moderate wind, weather. and fine
ON BOARD THE ADVENTURE. 2tt *773- 1 Morn Noon. Even. Wind*. Thermometer. Latitude South. Longitude Ealt of Greenwich. Barometer. Thermom. ) Thermometer. 0 - 0 S April 7. 54 41 05 47 173 56 30,4 58 56 South. n - 8. 52 In Ghaflotte's ZO,1 58 55 r ->- - 9. 54 Sound. 29,8 61 55 h ■ ■ ■ - 10. 54 29,85 56 66 O - - 11. 524 3°, I 564 63 South. v -> 12. 54 3°>i 62 56 N. N. W, ° 56 544 Ditto. -29. 494 3°i*4 54 50 Ditto. ¥ -30. 5°i 30,^4 54 514 Ditto. h May 1. 56 30,36 59 544 N. by E. O -2. 49 30,33 544 55 S. S. W. v 3* 47 30,27 57 454 N. N. E. $ - 4. 534 29,96 59 49 W. by N. J S . . 3 • 57 29.7 57 53 Ditto. n - 6. 48 30,27 54 55 S. W. by S. r 7 - 5i4 30,31 59 56 N. W. h - 8. 524 30,06 574 564 W. by N. 0 - 9. 574 30,03 584 54 S. S. W. v 10. 56 29,81 584 564 S. W. byW. $ ■ 1 1 1 1. 47 30,01 48 47 S. S. W. s --12. 544 30,28 524 49 W. N. W. V - 13. 45 30,15 52 49 S. S. W. ¥ - 14 - 48 30;3 2 5*4 5 2 N. E. h - 15- 47 30,24) 58 57 N. by W. O - 16. 57 29,75584 48 Ditto. D - 17. 5 1 29.63 46 4 43 W. S. W. S - 18. 52 29,5 58 47i S. S. W. 8 - 19. 40 2 9,7 5-4 48 Ditto. 50 30,02 56 45 hast. Weather, &c. Mbderate wirtd, and fair wea-> iher. j { Brisk wind, and flying clouds j Ditto, and fair weather. > Mbderate wind, and fair weather. Strong wind, and cloudy. Little wind, and fair weather. Strong wind, and ditto. Ditto, and rain. Ditto, and cloudy. Ditto, and fair weather*, j Moderate Wind, and dittd. | Brisk wind, with rain. Moderate wind, and fine weather. Moderate wind, and fair weather. Moderate wind, with rain at times. Ditto, and fair weather. Strong wind, with rain. Scarce any wind, and very fine. 1 > Brisk wind, and fine weather. Gentle breezes, and very fine weather. Strong wind, and flying clouds Ditto, with rain. Ditto, with heavy showers. Gentle breezes, and fine wea ther. I 3 i
212 METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS *773 Morn Noon. Even Wind. The/- mo- meter. Latitude South. Longitude East of Greenwich. Barometer. Thermom. Thermometer. 0 ' O ' ? May 21. 54 30,02 57 44 East. - - - 22. 4-9 ^29,86 49 47 N. N. E. O * - - 2 3- 48 30,25 49 50 3. W. byW. c D " - ' 24- 49 30,2 54 49 S. 8. W. 1 $ " ■ 25. 49 ZO,T 57k 48 N. by E. 1 8 ■-- 26. 49^ 29,6 57k 47 E. by N. 1 1 V 27. 47 29^5. 57 49 N. W. 7 r 28. 49 29,66 58 48^ N. E. 1 h 29. 48 29,75 58 4 9 Ditto. 7 Q 30- §94 29,8i 591 52 West. s J> ..* Al- 57 Z o,i 491 51 S. S. W. 7 F June 1. §6 30,3 56 50 Ditto. 5 8 -- 2. 52 30,19 58 §6 Ditto. 7 n -- 3- 53 30,3 58 51 8. W. 5 ¥ ' 4. 54 30,41 591 49 s. s. w. I T? -- 5; 57 3°"4 I 491 47 Ditto. } © -- 6 . §2 30,3 56 47 Ditto. J D 7- 49 4 41 34 174 04 30,05 56 48 Ditto. j L -- 8. 494 41 §z4 174 48 29,7 5il 474- N. W. 8 -- 9- 55 42 50 176 48 29,55 52i 48 Ditto. 7 V --- 10. 53 43 57 I79 26 29-5 57 47 N. N. W. ¥ -- 11. 52 44 45 18 I 06 29.7 57 48 N. by W. h -- 12. 575 49 47 N. E. by E. i 8 16. 48 47 23 186 32 Zv,o 5o 49 E. by 8. 1 V •- *7- 48 46 21 186 32 29,8 49 471 E. 8. E. } ¥ -- 18. 49 45 50 188 44 29,95 49 47 8. 8. E. s h - 19. 474 45 r2 1 go 4 6 30,1 50 47i W. 8. W. 1 0 - --- ■ 20. 48 44 30 193 27 30,2 49 49 S. E. 5 -- 21. 50 44 i? 194 52 30,15 511 5° W. S. W. L 22. 5 1 44 32 x 9 o 32 30,15 52 49 W. by 8. 8 - - 2Z- 49 44 37 197 32 30,0 5o 481 N. W. by N. n - -- 24. 47 43 42 197 37 29'7 521 49 East. 1 ¥ 25. 54 43 l 3 197 12 29'5 54 49 E. by N. - - 26. 52 43 5 196 37 29'3 55 48 N, E. byN. O ■" 27. 52 42 23 196 37 29,35 53 5i S. E. by E. v 28. 52 42 24 197 44 29'35 53 5° Weft. $ -" - 29- 53 42 46 199 0 29-35 53 52 iM. E. 8 -- 3°- 5i 43 0 200 25 29,45 5 2 5° South. if July 1 49 43 06 202 19 2-9,65 5o 50 S. by E. ? -- 2. 49 42 59 203 40 2 9,75 5i 5° S. S. E. h 3 • 48 43 13 205 03 29,8 53k 41 N. N. W. Weather, &c. .Gentle breezes, and fine weather. Moderate wind, with flying clouds. ^ Ditto, with drizzling rain. ! Ditto, and fair weather. Brislc wind, and fair weather. Gentle gales, and ditto. Brisk wind, with thick weather, Little wind, and hazy. Brisk wind, and cloudy. Little wind, and hazy. Brisk wind, with rain. Brisk wind, and hazy. I Brisk wind, and flying clouds. Little wind, and cloudy. Strong wind, with rain. Brisk wind, and cloudy. Ditto, with drizzling rain. Light airs, and foggy at times. Ditto, and fair weather. Brislc wind, and squally. Gentle breezes, and hazy. Ditto, and fair weather. Brisk wind, and flying clouds.
ON BOARD THE ADVENTURE, 213 * 773 • Morn. Noan. Even. Wind. Fher- mo- -neter. Latitude South. Longitude Eati of Greenwich. Barometer. Thermom. - _ Thermometer. 0 0 O July 4. 49 43 57 20 5 52 29*9 50 i 484 E by S. " 5. 49 4 Z 24 208 °9 2 9>95 47 i 47 # --- 6. 52 42 °5 208 43 29*75 52 f 49 5 J - 7- 52 41 i8| 209 05 2 9>5 53 i 49 i is - 8. 52 41 59 210 49 2 9-5 5 iT 48 t West. ? - 9- 52s 42 38 212 33 2 9'9 5 'i 5 2 4 W. S. W. h - 10. 53S 43 38 215 43 30,0 5 i# 5 it O - 1 l. 46 43 3 ° 217 33 30,15 47 46 S. by W. 7 D - 12. 47 43 lZi 219 19 30,3 5 'f 49 S. S. W. * 13. 55 42 57 * 220 20 30,35 5 2 481 West. L -- i 4 > 49 42 50 221 32 30,05 50s 47 f N. E. % - 15 5 ° 42 30 221 23 29,1 52 47 i E. N. E. ¥ t- 16 48 4 i 23 223 o 4 29.4 50s 47 f S. 8. W. 7 h-1; 45 39 42 i 225 04 29,8 44 46 S. W. by S. 0-18. 46 37 5 -^ 225 29 30,25 50i 47 S. w. D -19 53 Z 6 30 22 5 39 30,2 54 f 54 s. s. w. F -20. 54 35 -9 225 36 30,15 55 53 8. E. 8-21. 58 32 45 224 3 ^ 29,6 59 57 East. % - 22 62 3 1 03 224 36 29,75 64 63 8. 8. W. ?-2Z- 62 29 21 224 13 29,9 64 64 N. W. byN. h -24. 64 29 43 222 49 29,9 65 65 N.N.W. j O 25 66 29 46 223 05 29,65 64 66 N. W. P -26. 66 28 53 225 14 3 °,° 68 67 N. W. byW. 1 O Aug, 1 68 25 11 225 57 29,8 67 66 W. N. W. D-2 67 23 14 226 1 1 30,05 70 68 W. by S. 1 *. - 3 7 i 22 11 226 59 30,-5 72 67 West. 1 8 -- 4 72 21 22 22 7 xo 30,05 75 75 Ditto. \ V - 5 73 20 39 227 5 °f 30.15 77 77 N. W. J ?-6 76 19 46 228 35 30,05 77 78 West. 1 h 7- 78 18 52 227 21 30,15 7 i 76 E. 8. E. 7 O - 8. 76 18 04 224 47 30,05 76 75 Ditto. D - 9- 75 1 7 4 i 222 36 30,25 75 74 E. by 8. $ -- 10. 75 k -7 2Z 220 33 30,25 784 75 Ditto. 3 8-11 77 L l 7 16s 218 29 30,1 "9 76 East. 7 is - 12 77 17 10 2l6 10 30,0 77 E. by S.. 5 ?-13. iH J 7 15 215 11 30,1 80 78 Ditto. 7 h -14 79 J 7 18 212 50 30,0 79 i 77 Ditto. 1 0-15 17 46 211 °5 30,05 80, 77 Ditto. P-16 . 781 17 46 30,1 82 84 S. by E. 1 1 Weather, Sec, Brisk wind, and flying clouds. Strong wind, and squally, with rain Brisk wind, and flying clouds. Little wind, and fair weather. Fresh gales, and squally. Gentle gales, and flying clouds. Brisk wind, and squally. j! Gentle gales, and flying clouds. Little wind, and fair weather. B rifle wind, and cloudy. Strong wind, with drizzling rain Gentle gales, and fair weather. Brilk wind, and flying clouds. Srong wind, with rain. Brisk wind, with showers. Moderate wind, with drizz. rain, Strong wind, and much rain. Brisk wind, ditto. Moderate wind, and fair weath. Little wind, and ditto. Little wind, and fair; rain in the night. Brisk wind, with showers. Moderate W. with flying clouds. 'Little wind, and fine weather.. I Little wind, and cloudy. ■Brisk wind, and cloudy.
214 METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS Morn. | Noon. |Even. Latitude Longitude -3 1773 - rher- East of Baro- ar Ther- mn. South. Green- 3 mo- meter. wich. meter. 0 3 meter. O 0 y F Aug. 17. 8l *7 39 * 30,° 82 82 S - 18. 84 17 44 i 210 36 30,05 82 8i T| -. 19. S-20. 83 82 In Oaitip on the eha Bay, N. W. ZO,I 3 °>° 82 824 81 804 h - "■ - 21. 8of 78 77 side of the lesser 29,95 8i* 77 * O - - 22. D- 2Z. peninsula of Ota- 29, 8 5 30,0 8i 78 79 78 d - 24. 75 1 30,05 75 77 S - 25. 74 17 2 4 i 210 34 3 °,° 8 o 4 78 "4 - 26. 7 2 In Matavi Bay, Otaheite. 30,1 814 ? - 27. h - 28. 17 29 210 23 O- 29. v - 3 °- $ -31. S Sept. 1. 7 Si n --- 2. 16 59 i 209 38s 3°,° 77 75 * ?-Z. 75 16 45 209 0 30,0 77 76 h - 4 . 76 At anchor in Ow- zo.i 78* 77 O - 5 . 77 harre Harbour, 30,0 79 * 79 " - 6 . 77 * in Huaheine. 30,0 78 77 * - 7 - 77 f r6 59 * 30,05 80 77 S - 8. 78 16 45* 208 35 30,0 8i 78 W - 9 - 77* 30,0 8oi 78 81* $ -10. 76 30,1 824 h - 11. 77 At ancho r in Oha- 30,0 82 82 O - 12. "-iz- 76 76 i manensHarbour, in Uliateah. 3 °,° 30,16 77 78* 80 804 # -- 14. 77 30,14 7 7 * 75 * s - 15- 74 v 30,13 77 * 76 h-16. 75 * 30-n 77 * 75 ?-17. 76 s 16 50s 208 11 30,05 78 78 h - 18. 767 17 16 207 02 29,9 78* 77 * O - 19. 777 17 40 2 C 5 58 29,95 78* 78 D-20. 7 6 * 18 02 204 50 30,0 80-i 774 $ - 21. .787 18 24 204 25 29-9 80 764 S-22 78 18 40 203 31 30,0 77 76 U - 2 3 . 72s 19 c6 201 58 30,0 74 72 ¥-24. 73 + 19 28s 200 20 30,05 74* 724 h-25. 74 i '9 52 '97 40 30,05 74 * 73 0-26. 73 20 25 95 26 30,95 73 * 7 1 D-27. "*7 O"' 20 39 193 09 30,95 72 * 70* Little wind, and drizzling rain, j . | Brisk wind, and flying clouds. j. Moderate wind, and fair weather. Moderate winds, and showers. Ditto, and flying clouds. Brisk W. and cloudy, with rain. Little wind, and cloudy. Brisk wind, and cloudy. Ditto, with drizzling rain. Ditto, with flying clouds. ^ Brisk wind, and cloudy.
ON BOARD THE ADVENTURE, si; !^orn. Noon. Even. - - Longitude i?n Ther- mo- Latitude South. East of Green- Saro- tart Z Thermo- Wind. Weather, &c. meter. wich. meter. O meter. 0 O § V Sept. 29. S°* 72 7 °i 21 21 28s 12 188 36 30,1 30,0 72 70 7 ' 684 E. by S. ; 8. E. by E. i Moderate wind and.flying clouds. s Oct. 1. 69 21 20^ 185 40 3 °"° 72 69 Ditto. Moderate wind, and cloudy. h - 2. 7 oi 21 2 I-3- 3°>'5 7'4 684 E. N. E. " 0 - 3 - 7 1 21 04 3 °"° ' 7 'i 72 Ditto. ■Ditto. r - 4 - 7 oi 21 4 185 10 30,05 724 70 Ditto. 664 1 At Tongatabu, F 5 - {^Friendly Islands. J 30,0 7 ' 70 E. byN. Brisk, wind, with showers. s V --- 6 7 - 67 69 21 21 +A 4 t 185 29,95 3 °"o 73 7 'i 7 ' 7 ' Ditto. E. 8. E. j . Gentle gales, with clouds. ? - 8. 7 i 22 14 02 29-95 7 'i 70 S. W. by 8. Little wind, and cloudy. h O 9 10. 70 69 22 22 25s 45 185 184 28 '5 30,0 30,05 7 ' 69 69 67 S. S. W. , S. E. by S. J Brisk wind, and fair weather. r F 11. 12. 67 68 23 25 54 3 1 183 I8l 0 43 30,0 30,2 68 68 67 66 8. E. by E. i East. J Moderate wind, and ditto. S n ' 3 - 14. 67 66 27 28 us 42 180 180 5 6 '4 30,2 30,1 68 66 67 65 E. by S. 1 East. J Moderate wind, and cloudy. r i? ' 5 - 16. 6 5 4 64 30 3 1 *5 38* '79 179 47 45 30,2 30,2 67s 664 65 65 E. by N. 1 East. \ Moderate wind, and fine weather. o s ' 7 - 18. 65 65 32 33 43 47 i '79 180 58 05 3°>2 3 °,° 67s 67 6-4 644 N.E. i N. N. E. Light winds, and fair weather. s - 19. 64s 35 544 180 21 29,15 654 64 North. s --. 20. 58 37 444 1 79 45 29,65 60 59 West. > Brisk gales, with rain. V - 21. 58 39 064 178 26 29,25 64 60 N. W. J r 22. 5 6 40 '5 176 3 ° 29,2 59 57 North. h - 2 3 - 55 40 534 176 05 29,55 56 56 S S.W.4W. >Strong wind, in squalls. o - 24. 56 4 i 30 '75 28 29.3 61 554 W. N. W. v - 25 54 42 18 '74 58 29,25 60 56 N. W. i f - 26. 55 42 33 '74 42 29,6 54 i 5 ' South. > Strong wind, and cloudy weather. s - 27. 54 f 42 17 •74 33 29,65 56 54 N. W. ■4 28 54 42 18 '75 10 29,25 56 54 Ditto. J Ditto, and fair weather. ? - 29 534 41 50 '75 33 29,65 53 53 W. by N. Moderate wind, and ditto. J? - Zo- 54 41 53 '75 29 29,55 60 54 N. W. Strong wind, and hazy. O 3 '- 59 42 32 '75 4 ' 29>7 64-i 55 N. N. W. Ditto, and fair weather. s Nov. i , 58 42 52 '75 45 29,15 61 54 N. N. W. Little wind, and rain. F - 2. 58 4 1 37 176 0 29,65 57 52 W. by N. Moderate wind, and cloudy. S 4 3 4 53 54 4 1 4 l 20 40 '75 '75 30 0 29,75 29,7 53 6o| 54 59 S. 8 W. 7 N W by W c winds, and fair weather. ? 5 - 56 4 i 34 '75 10 29,65 5 ' 54 s. w. Strong wind, and heavy rain. b 6 . 54 41 37 '75 57 29,6 52 53 South. Ditto, with hail and rain. O - 7 - 53 39 41 '77 25 29-75 53 53 S. by W. Little wind, and fair weather. D 8. 60 39 oiv '77 5 ' 29,75 63 54 W. by N. Ditto, with drizzling rain. $ " 9 - 56 38 2lf '78 33 * .29-65 57 57 S. by W. Moderate wind, and fair weather.
216 METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS Morn.I 1 773* S it - ¥ - h - O - D - F ■ S - n - s ■ t> O ' D t s V ¥ Tj O r c? s ■4 ¥ 1 ? © D S s ■4 Nov. Noon. Thermometer.! Latitude South. Longitude East of Greenwich. Barometer. Dec, ? h o 3 ) $ s 4 5 L O v S 10 11. 12 . >3 14. IS- 16. *7- 18. 19, 20 21. 22. 23 24 25, 26. ' 27 ■ 28. ■ 29 ■ 3 ° 1 3 4 5 6 . 7 8 . 9- 10 11. 12, *3 I S i 16 17 18 J 9 20 21 22 38 39 39 3 i = 42 59 178 178 177 177 1 75 '75 176 175 1 75 49,85 To- 29,8 I?o,i zc>,i 30,2 2 9'95 29,65 29,6 57 57 59 37 07 45^29,6 09 >29,55 29,8 29,75 30,1 50 40 25 53 o 30, go ,3 30,0 30.25 29,9 30,2 29,85 32.25 30,22 30,08 30,02 29,8 64 67 68 68 56 55 5 61 61 59 , 56 At anchor in 56 laga Bay, 52 57 56 54 62: 6Z 62 I 40 39 64 41 oz 54 4 1 °5 52 41 04 58 40 54 57 4i 3 6 .- r 56s 30,0 56 56 >30,15 58 56 41 57 ,74 4Z 58 57i| 42 °7 174 5o 54 56 56 57 56 54 On shore in Queen 29,8 55 {Charlotte's Sound. 29,7 29,96 >30,46 30,4 > 30,57 130,48 [ 30,39 30,30 i 3 0 ,38 57 51 59 64 6 oi| 63 61 61 59 57 54 65 61 6i-:> 61 65 >30,2 j 0,2 [•30,0 29,9 29,96 29,9 29,65 29,8 61 62 60 57 63 66 67 59 69 68 68 Even. Thermometer. Wind. 57 * 3. S. E. 1 54 South. 3 54 S.E. ] 57 S.E. byE. j 66 E. S.E. 1 60 S. S. E. q 60 N.N.E. 1 62 N. W. ' 67 W.N.W. J CN.W. I 62 I W.byS. J 55 i Variable. 54 South. 55 S. S. W. r 56 S. E. r 65 N. E. 57 N. N. W. 56 Ditto. 57 Ditto. r 56 Ditto, 56 S.W. i 55 S. by W. I 56 South. 57 N. W. i 56 Variable. 54 N. N. W. 59 North. 66 Variable. i 68 N. W. 69 N. N. W. i 68i W. N. W. 64 Variable. f 69 N. W. i- 65 Ditto. f 65 Ditto. 73 - -Variable. !- 61 N. N. E. 72 8 . 8 . W. 59 N.E. I- 59 r N. W. rl 60 V ariable. ;i-! 62 N. N. E. | 64 N. W.byN. >i. 65 Ditto. Weather, &c. | Moderate wind, and fair weather, Strong wind, and squally. Moderate winds, and fair weather. Little winds, with squally weather. Little winds, and cloudy. Strong wind, with rain at times. Moderate wind,with flyingclouds, Little wind, and fair wea her. Strong wind, and hazy. Moderate wind, with rain. Strong wind, with rain. Light airs, and hazy. > Moderate wind, and fine weather* •Squally, with drizzling rain. Strong wind, and much rain. ^ Moderate wind, and fair weather. | Little wind, and fair weather. 1 Little wind, and fine weather. } Brisk wind, and fine weather. Moderate wind, and cloudy. Gentle breezes, and fair weather, Brisk wind, and squally. 7 j Gentle breezes, and fair weather Strong gales in squalls, & cloudy Brisk gales, and hazy.
ON BOARD THE ADVENTURE 217 Morn Noon. Even. Winds. Thermometer. Latitude South. Longitude East of Greenwich. Barometer. Thertnom. Thermo. meter. 0 0 / 64 42 25I 175 10 30,t 66 6 5 § N. W. 6 if 43 75 46 41 South. 4 i 51 37 183 11 30,05 48 42 W. by S. 49 53 11 186 18 29,7 49 ! 49 West. 49 54 4 i 189 27 29,25 46 46 Ditto. 43 55 29 192 42 29,4 46 45 W. S. W. 56 27 196 7 * 29,+ 41 40 S. by W. 38 56 57 199 42 \ 29,6 38 37 Ditto. 38 57 06 202 47 29.7 40 36s S. by E. 36 57 29 206 06 29,65 38 37 S. S. W. 37 i 57 56 208 48 29,25 37 f 36 W. by S. 35 58 18 2X2 47 28,65 36 36 W. S. W. 35 58 4<4 215 20 28,5 38 36 S. W. 3 6 58 45 2x6 39 - 8,55 4 i 37 V ariable. 37 58 45 217 5 ° 28,55 37 38 W. S. W. 39l 58 48 i 221 46 29,0 38 i 381 VVest. 39 58 5 ° 1 22 5 40 29.5 40 40 Ditto. 39 59 5 i 229 3 1 29,7 43 41 Ditto. 39 59 11 234 37 29.4 4 l 4 1 \ N. W. 43 59 25 241 05 28,75 41 40 W. N. W. 43 59 52 245 39 28,45 4 ii 42 N. N. W. 38 60 9t 247 20 28,35 4 -z 40 S. E. by S. 40 59 3 1 249 07 28,75 42 i 40 S. | E. 40 59 *5 25 - 54 28,5 42 41 S. by E. 41 59 33 f 2 55 26 28,85 40 43 bo 18 259 30 29,2 43 42 North. 4 if 60 48 263 02 29,55 43 42 N. N. W. 4 i 61 13 266 45 29,3 !--i 41-2 N. W. 4 ' 61 46 270 5° 29,05 42 4i W. N. W. 4 1 61 5° 275 34 29,3 42 42 N. N. W. 43 T 61 341 280 40 29,35 4i 4*1 W. N. W. 41 61 20 287 44 39l 4i! N. W. by N. 41 61 02 291 3 1 29,4 4i 4if W. N. W. 41 60 44t 295 55 29,25 42 4i Ditto. 41 60 3 6 302 47 29,6 4i 4i W. by N. l?7Z. Dec Feb. x. 2. 3 4 - 5- 6 . 7- 8 . 9 - 10. XI. 12. *3- 14. I 5- 16. ■"7- 18. 19. 20. 21. 22. 2Z- 24. 25 26. 27- 28 29. 30. 3'- I 2. 3 - Weather, &c. j Little wind, and fine weather. I Little wind, and foggy. 1 Little wind, and foggy, with drizzling rain. Brisk wind, and cloudy. Little wind, and thick fog. Strong wind, and much rain. Brisk wind, and flying clouds. Ditto, and cloudy. Strong wind, and thick, with rain. Moderate wind, and heavy rain. Brisk wind, and flying clouds. Ditto, with squally weather. Ditto, with sleet. ( Moderate wind, with showers. Little wind, and thick, with rain. Moderatewind,with snow at times. Light winds, and cloudy, j Ditto, with snow. Little wind, with drizzling rain. I Brisk wind, with snow at times. | Brisk winds, with snow. Strong wind, with showers. Ditto, and flying clouds. Moderate wind, and thin clouds. Little wind, and cloudy. Little wind, and flying clouds. Brisk wind, and squally at times. Little wind, and hazy. Brisk wind, and very hazy. Brisk wind, and foggy, with rain. Little wind, and very foggy. Brisk wind, and foggy at times. Ditto, and cloudy, with showers. Brisk wind, and fair weather. Moderate wind, and heavy rain. Brisk wind, and thick, with rain. Moderate wind, and cloudy. . Brisk wind, with rain.
zi8 METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS Worn. 1774. Thermometer. Noon. Even. Winds. Latitude South. Longitude East of Greenwich. Barometer. Thermom, Thermometer. 0 * 0 * 60 3 2 3 °7 06 29,65 39 37 N.W. j 60 18 310 58 2 9'55 37 37k N. N. W. j 60 16 312 40 28,9 38 35 E. N. E. 59 17 3 i 5 02 29.35 4 i 36 S. E. 58.30 317 20 29,8 37 * 37 N. W. 57 20 320 18 29,85 37k 38 s. w. 56 58 322 3 30,05 4 i i 38s N. N.W. 1 56 22 324 24 29,85 4 i 39k Ditto. i 55 28 325 47 29.3 40 361 N.W.byW. | 54 38 327 5 6 k 29.35 4 i 39 N. W. 1 54 22 330 0 29,6 42 40 N. N. W. 54 11 333 0 29.3 40 s 39 N. W. 54 02 336 09 29,2 39i 3 8^ S. E. 54 10 338 57 29.55 38 38 N. E. 54 12 340 16 29.35 40 40 North. 54 0 34 i 57 28,95 40 37 E. S. E. 53 20 343 5 6 29,65 37 38 s. W. by S. 53 24 346 5° 29,1 39 l 3"4 W. S. W. 53 1 1 349 37 29.95 40 39 West. 53 °4 352 29 2 9.7 39 39 West. 52 47 355 43 29,45 39 39' W. N. W. 53 16 358 17 29.3 38I 38 Weft. 53 35 0 3 29,2 33 36 E. S. E. Feb. 4' - 5 - -- 6.j - 7 - 8 . - 9 - io - n -- 12- - IZ. - 14 - 15 - 16. - 17 - 18. - 19 -20. -21. - 22. - 23 - 24 -- 25 -26 -26 27 3 6 37 3 6 * 35 37 35 39i 39 4i 38 38s 39 384 39 40 39 36 39 37 38s 40 39 37 Weather, &c. | Moderate wind, and hazy. Brisk winds, with snow at times. Little winds, and hazy. Brisk winds, ditto. Moderate wind, and foggy. Dittoy and cloudy. Strong wind, with drizzling rain Brisk wind, with thick fog. Little wind, ditto. Brisk wind, ditto. Moderatewind,&foggy,withrain. Moderate wind, and thick clouds Little wind, foggy, with rain. Brisk wind, and foggy weather. Ditto, cloudy. Ditto, squally. Light winds, and fine weather. Brisk wind, and thick weather. Strong wind, and foggy. Ditto, with inow. Little wind, ditto. D- 28. 4 14 50 29.7 50 49 W. S. W. 47 k 4i 48 14 19 30,05 55 58 S. S. W. 6U 4* 16 14 34 29,6 62 58 N. N. W. 64 39 59 rZ 14 29,6 60 61 W. by N. 64I 37 32i 16 4 29.7 654 62 w. S. w. 65* 35 3i4 16 4 30,20 09 68 s. w. 67 34 37 16 51 ZO.OZ 691- 684 S. E. by S. [ Little wind, and fair weather, j Brisk wind, and ditto. | Little wind, and fine weather.
ON BOARD THE ADVENTURE 219 ' 77 4* n Mar. 17. - 18. r h o " F s V ? h O 5 s n ? j? o 5 $ s ¥ h O v F " ¥ T? O J) F L % ¥ T? G D F S V ¥ Morn. I Noon. Then mo- meter. -19 - 20 . -21 - 22 . -23. - 24. -25. -- 26. -27 -28. -29. -30, 3 1 ' April 1. -2. -3> -4. -9 -10. -12. -13. -14. -16. -17 -18. -19. - 20 . -- -23. -24. -25. -26. -27. -28. -29. 6 8 j.; 68 68 69 62 Latitude South. Longitude East of Greenwich. 66 64- 67 64 64 63: 6z4 65 66 65 66 66 664 6 gi 3+ *3 At the Good 33 -3 32 49 33 5 32 34 3 1 30 16 29 15 2 7 444 26 1 3 24 57 23 48 22 49 21 53 17 42 Cape of Hope. l 7 3i 16 54 16 7 16 7 14 20 13 o r 3 2 3? x t 9 8 7 6 43 36 28 12 19 18 30,0 29.95 29,90 30,05 30,02 29,9670 2 9"9 2 30,0 30,1 30,04 30,11 30,18 3°. 1 30.13 29.95 0,0 30,06 30,08 30,08 30,1 Baro meter, 7"* 70 68 68 6 Si 63 634 66 68 68 65 64^1 67 66 10.0 30,04 30,0467 29,99 29,89 ,x 30,1 30.15 29.8 9.9 30,1 29,85 29,85 30,0 0,0 29.9 30,0 29.9 9.9 39.9 694 61 72 6r 62 Even. 72 69 67 67 67- 65 64 66 71 70 66 j 66 66 67 6 94 7o 694 75 Ther. mo- neter. 69 67 66 67 61 72 66 67 69 64 65 64 64 65 66 67 67 67 68 Winds. w. s. w. N. E. by N. N.N. W. W. by N. N. by W. East. E. by 8. Ditto. S. E. N. W. Ditto. S. E. Ditto. N. W. Variable. North. E. by S. N. W. Ditto. E. N. E. S.E. Ditto. Ditto. Ditto. Ditto. Ditto. E. S. E. N. W. Ditto. E. S. E. N. N. W. S. S. E. Variable. N. N. W. S. S. E. Ditto. W. N. W. N. W. byW. South. 1 S. E. Strong wind, and hazy weather, I J Ditto, and fine weather. Little wind, and cloudy. Brisk wind, and flying clouds. - Little wind, and fine weather. Little wind, and much rain. Ditto, and flying clouds. Ditto, and fine weather. Brisk wind, and ditto. Little wind, and ditto. Ditto, and flying clouds. Brisk wind, and flying clouds. 'Little wind, and fine weather.
220 METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS Vlorn. Noon. Even. 17741 Thermometer. Latitude South. Longitude East of Greenwich. Barometer. Thermon Thermometer Winds. 0 ' ° ' h April 30. 69 21 22 3 3 1 30,1 774 67 S. E. by E. O May 1. 69 20 52 2 404 30,1 74 69 S. E. D 2. 69 20 224 1 57 29,9 7°4 68 3 . W. F - 3 - 69s 19 3-4 1 13 30,0 744 69 w. s. w. S - 4 - 70 19 27 0 50 30,0 76 694 S. S. E. n 5 ' 7 ii 18 474 0 0 West. 30-05 734 69 3 . E. S 6. 704 17 40 1 29 3 o,o 734 694 Ditto. T? - 7 . 714 16 49 2 37 29-95 75 69 8. 8 . E. O -- 8. 7 * 4 - 15 48 3 38 30,0 744 69 8. E. J> 9 - 7 1 4 14 49 13 224 4 54 30.15 73 70 Ditto. F 10. 73 6 34 30,15 75 7 i Ditto. L - - - 11. 74 12 24 8 84 29,8 774 72 S. E. by 8. U - - 12. 75 10 43 9 26 30,0 77 73 S. 8. E. S " 1 1 3 • 76 9 14 10 59 29,95 80 74 3 . E. h - 14. 75 7 554 12 30 30,0 8 c >4 77 Ditto. O --- 15. 78 6 334 14 i 7 29,85 8 x 4 8 x 4 Ditto. " -- 16. 784 5 14 1 5 45 29,9 82J 82 Ditto. S -- 17. 794 4 17 10 29,9 784 804 8. E. by E. s -- 18. 7"4 2 35 i J 9 2 30,0 8 x 4 80 S. E. A 19. 77 0 584 North. *9 55 30,0 80 784 Ditto. 9 - 20. 76 0 21 20 35 29,9 80 77 S. E. by S. h - 21. 77 I 24 i 21 04 32,0 80 784 S. by E. O 22. 80 2 54 f 21 32 2 9*95 821 80 8. 8. E. D - 23 - 79 4 5 22 1 30,0 83 80 N. E. $ 24 . 78 4 37 22 17 29-95 79 80 E. S. E. L - 25. 784 5 27 22 17 40,1 82 79 E. by N. n - 26. 79 5 5 6 22 52 29-95 82 79 * N. E. ? - 27, 77 5 59 i 24 34 30,0 814 79 Calm. V 28. 75 6 11J 24 57 29.9 81 80 8. by W. O 29. 75 6 38 2 5 33 29-95 79 75 Calm. D 30 . 75 6 41 25 0 30,0 76 75 Variable. § - 3 '- 77 794 6 37 25 20 30,0 794 76 Ditto. ,L June 1. 6 48 24 57 3 °>° 8 x 4 78 Ditto. % - 2 • 79 7 71 25 374 3 °>° 804 79 N. N. E. ? - 3 - 794 7 n 25 52 30,0 81 79 Ditto. h -- 4 - 784 7 39 26 45 ZO,o 80 7 8 t N. E. by N. O - 5 - 774 7 59 27 11 30,0 794 79 North. D - 6. ■ 77 8 14 27 54 30,0 81 78 N. E. by E. S 7 78 9 '5 28 5 1 30,0 80 79 Ditto. S - 8. , 77 10 29 32 06 29,9 79 4 77 Ditto. *4 -- 9 - . 77 11 51 3 * 12 29-95 794 77 Ditto. % 10. 76 13 184 32 3 1 30,05 774 76 N.N.E. Weather, &c. Little wind, and sine weather. | Brisk winds, and fine weather. Brisk wind, and cloudy. Little wind, ditto. Brisk wind, ditto. j! Brisk wind, and flying clouds. Brisk winds, and fine weather. Brislc wind, with showers. Brisk wind, and fine weather. Little wind, and cloudy. | Gentle breezes, and fine weather, | Light winds, with showers. Light winds, and fine weather. | Cloudy, with heavy showers. ^Little wind, and heavy rain. j Little wind, and fair weather, j Brisk wind, with rain. { Light winds, and clear weather, j Ditto, and cloudy. | Little wind, and fine weather. I Brisk wind, and flying clouds, j Ditto, and cloudy. j Ditto, and flying clouds. i I
ON BOARD THE ADVENTURE 221 1774. Morn. Noon. Even. Winds. Thermometer. Latitude North. Longitude West of Greenwich. Barometer. Thermom. Thermometer. 0 0 h J une 11. 74 *4 42 33 5* 30,0 7 6 Z 75 N. E. O - 12. 74 l6 231 34 44 30,0 76 74 Ditto. 7 V-13- n\ *7 44 i 35 37 30,0 75 74-4 N.E.byE. 5 95 77 75 E. by N. L-15 75 20 49 t 36 37 30,05 76 75 E. N. E. ■st - 16. 75 22 22 37 35 30,15 77* 76 N. E. by N. ? - 17 76 23 45 38 23 30,05 79 774 N. E. by E. 7 h -18. 76 25 9 \ 39 *3 30,25 77i 76 Ditto. 4 G-19 75 26 34 39 11 30,2 771 75 E. S. E. D-20. 75 i 28 0 39 0 30,3 76s 754 S. E. <?-21. 74* 29 *71 39 24 30,25 76| 77 E. N. E. L -- 22 75 30 54 39 3 6 30,3 75 75 East. 7 st-23. 75 32 394 40 05 30,3 74 744 E.by N. J ?-24. 72s 34 23s 40 29 30,45 73 t 744 Ditto. 7 h-25. 7*1 35 56 40 29 30,45 734 73 Ditto. J O-26 7* 37 12 40 20 30,35 72 72 E. S. E. I 5 -- 27. 7 1 37 45 i 39 32 30,3 73 7* S.E.byS. ' $ -28 7* 37 53 40 10 30,4 76 72 Variable. 2-29. 72 3 8 40 39 40 30,4 744 724 W. N.W. st-3°- 73 39 *3 39 0 30,4 76 73 West. ? July 1. 73 40 6 37 24 30,3 744 734 N.W. by W. h -2 69 40 5* 35 55 30,15 76 71 East. O-3. 70 41 33 35 0 30,1 704 7ii N. W. by N. 2-4 72 42 44 32 32 30,1 72 70 West. I * 5- 72 44 1 29 57 30,0 7i 69 West. i L - 6. 67 45 45 27 18 29,8 65 66 8. W. st- 7. 5 6 47 10 23 58 29,85 59 59 W. N. W. ¥- 8. 57i 48 5? 20 41 29,9 58 574 N. W. h - 9 57 49 9 *7 *9 29,95 57 58 Ditto. O - 10. 57 ■ 49 22 *5 55 29,95 58 57 Ditto. 5-II. 57 49 272 11 3* 30,1 61 56 Ditto. F - 12. 58 49 35i 8 1 29,9 60 544 S W. L -- 13. 57 50 6| 5 20 29,9 57 53 W. N. W. st- 14 55 At Spithead. 29,95 54 66 N.W.fN. Weather, &c. Brisk wind, and squally. Ditto, and fine weather. Light winds, and flying clouds. Squally, with showers of rain. Light winds, and cloudy. Gentle breezes, and fair weather. Brisk wind, in squalls. Little wind, and thin clouds. Brisk gales, and squally. | Gentle winds, and fine weather I Little wind, and cloudy. Gentle breezes, and fine weather Brisk wind, and cloudy. Light winds, with rain. Brisk winds, in squalls. Brisk wind, and cloudy. Strong wind, and squally. Very strong wind, and ditto. Brisk wind, and fine weather. Strong wind, with heavy showers Little wind, and cloudy. Ditto, and fine weather. Brisk wind, and thick rainy weather. Little wind, and hazy. Brisk wind, and squally.

* ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS, FOR Determining the Latitude of the Ship and her Longitude, BY TWO WATCHES: One made by Mr. KENDALL, on Mr. HARRISON'S Principles,. and the other by Mr. ARNOLD, Made on Board his Majesty's Sloop RESOLUTION, In her late Voyage on Discoveries towards the South.

© " "o " ON BOARD THE RESOLUTION. 225 ■4 ? 1772. Time by Watch K. Time by Watch A. No. Altitude of the V's L. L. Longitude W. by K. Longi tude W. by A. Latitude North. Ther A. morn. B. No.ofObs.| H ' " H O 0 ' 0 O * July i2. 20 19 504 20 *7 594 37 394 4 224 4 064 50 *5i 66 61 3 Noon. 61 2 8£ 65 5 24 211 5 22 15 22 56 4 344 4 IS 49 44 § 4 -14. 20 10 14 20 7 5 35 38 5 4 t 4 23s 49 11 5 - 1 5 - Noon. 62 25 48 50 65 64 4 59 451 4 56 22! 27 25i 48 344 4 -- 16. Noon. 63 37 47 284 6 3i 61 4 53 25 4 49 21 29 2Z4 47 14 3 --- 17. Noon. 64 3°l 4 6 24-r 67 70 19 14 01 l 9 8 54 24 184 46 37i 5 21 O 24 42 11 3 22 45 5i 57 42 3 -- 18. 19 30 49 19 25 0 26 3°4 45 354 67 63 3 - 19 Noon. 65 12 45 20 66 64s ■-20. Noon. 66 27s 43 54 661 66 -21. Noon. 66 40 43 3° 67 66 l9 57 50 19 49 48 29 5* 43 414 2 21 5° 44 21 4* 5 2 4 49 47 43 40 5 22 18 114 22 10 54 54 254 43 38* 3 - 22. Noon. 66 23 43 35 67 654 5 18 64 5 9 454 25 41 43 26 69 3 19 2 41 18 53 53i l 9 *5i 42 4i4 6 ' 2Z. Noon. 67 28 42 18 65 644 19 17 134 19 7 384 20 254 40 32 68 654 5 - 24. Noon. 69 3i 40 2 67 66; - 25. Noon. 7i 40 37 40 70 1 70 6 3 4 8 ? 5 53 4i *9 02 37 4 -- 26. Noon. 73 36 35 3*i 7 1 724 5 32 424 5 21 11 25 45 1 35 07 5 21 56 24? 21 44 i4l 48 5 °i 33 56L 4 - 27. Noon. 75 10 33 43 7i 72 20 0 18 19 47 i8| 23 35 -b- 32 54 73 724 3 When the. last Observations were taken, the island of Porto Sancto t n ? h o- 28 3° Remarks. N. distant about four miles. Noon. | , I75 50 | I 13 2 48!b3J7*tl I I carried both Time-keepers on shore at Fonchial, on the island of Madeira, and compared them with the Astronomical Clock, (see p. 6.) from whence I find that Mr. Kendall's was losing at the rate of C',77 a day on mean time, and gave the longitude of the place 12 0 50' 14'' west of Drake's Island, or 17° 6' 22" west of Greenwich. Mr. Arnold's (No. 3.) was losing 56",9 a day on mean time, and gave the longitude 9^ 59' 41'' west of Drake's Island, or 14 0 4/ 49" west of Greenwich. O Aug. 2. Noon. 75 °3 32 214 734 754 5 56 28,4 5 38 12.4 21 3o4o 3 1 52; 5 20 8 354 19 5° 36 23 3o4 30 144 734 73 3 D-A Noon. 77 254 2 9 42-A 744 77
0 ^ 40 226 ASTRONOMICAL. OBSERVATIONS 1772. $ Aug. 4, L - n - ? - T? - O - 3) - <? - n - I'ime by 'Watch X. Tlime by Watch A. No. 3. t Altitude of the -0's L. L. H ' " ' H A O / 4- Noon. 78 -6 3 56 504 3 36 6 48 "£4 6 43 9 6 22 *74 II 5 £4- 5- Noon. ?8 4P4 4 12 3:1 45 4 6. Noop. 80 124 20 23 33 l 9 59 144 23 5pt 7- Noop. 81 56 0 -9 3 6 44 18 9 r 8. Noop. 83 28 20 20 424 19 53 35t 21 2l4 9- Noon. 85 224 20 24 27,4 19 55 52,4 20 45^ 10. Noop. 87 9 20 42 25 20 12 26 23 56 11. Noop. 88 4? 7 4 38 6 34 oi4 7 224 20 38 22 20 6 57 22 n4 13- Noon. 89 22| 14. Noon. 89 2| 15- 20 52 5,4 20 15 35 25 134 16. 88 374 20 22 21 19 43 36 18 1644 i7* 22 51 3.7 22 ii i7 55 364 0 28 46 2 3 48 26 79 1 5t 18. 88 I9i 20 10 451 19 29 I2J 16 564 19. I 50 20t 79 38 3 59 45i 48 24 21. Noon. 86 334 22 30 0 21 44 32 53 134 22. Noon. 86 7 4 53 32 4 7 42 3i 12,4 20 6 50,6 -9 20 12,6 *9 18s 23- Noon. 85 2.54 20 50 45 20 3 47 Zl 2l4 24. Noon. 85 2 14 2Z- Noon. 85 13 :: 26. Noon. 84 46 20 22 134 *9 30 264 27 42 x s J 27. Noon. 84 14:: 4 52 22| 4 0 8* 24 2 f?xx* 20 8 41s 19 10 39 24 36 A 28. Noon. 84 4 5 4 74 4 10 35 19 58s 19 29 37 18 35 16 l 7 294 Long w tilde w, by L.. . . 18 53t 22 zH Longitude w. by 4* East. 'Latitude North. 6| 28 37t 28 284 28 25 27 55 4 2 7 384 r6 74. 24 33 24 22 294 22 7 20 294 20 54 -8 274 18 1 16 29 16 10,4 15 47t: 15 io 4 *4 53 14 54t 12 35 12 194 11 564 11 224 10 50 8 37 7 55 50 4*t 57 t 484 29 231 54 64 i84 13 84 43 i 4 2 t 4' 164 74* 744 754 74 76 73 744 744 75 75i 77 7:74 79 78 ■°4 8'i 80 81 81 81 8 of 79 8 of 79 80 784 80 do 79 78 79 78 Thermom. V A. fe. tT 7.64 76 774 78 744 79 73 79 76 ? 8 754] 79 7& d2t 80 82 8.ij 80 sr z ift" i3 X. 82 8 , 2 . do 79 do 80 do 78: 79 80: 7 & i 78 804 77 : 6 3 31 3 4 3 Remarks*
ON BOARD THE RESOLUTION. 227 1772 Time by Watch K. l ime by Watch A. No. q. Altitude of the 0 's L. L. Longitude W. by K. Longitude E. by A. Latitude North. Ther A. B. j No.ofObs. Remarks. H ' ' T " U 7 - 77 - O O > O * O h Aug. 29. Noon. 83 52 3 9 i 774 78 5 3 41 4 8 49 18 33 * 3 ol 4 19 17 3 <? l8 21 ZI 16 104 2 38* 5 O- 3 °* Noon. 83 40s 2 354 774 77 5 8 34! 4 12 49 1 15 22 2 354 2 19 54 40 18 57 33 27 * 7 t 2 33 3 v - Noon. 83 594 2 33'2 79 784 19 18 16s 18 19 4 ZL 18 224 2 4 78 77 7 F Sept. 1. Noon. 83 464 I 58* 78 79 3 40 27L z 41 26| 35 44 i 54 * 2 19 40 34 i 18 40 42I 23 *94 I 274 4 S - 2. Noon. 83 3-4 I 2x4 78 78 n - 3 - 19 20 50! 18 18 36 15 47-4 O 574 5 s- 4 - Noon. 83 45 O 52* 76 75 2 36 11 1 33 34 54 424 O 49 6 3 16 46 2 14 9 44 48 O 49 6 h 5* Noon. 84 10 O 534 75 * 76 3 9 36 2 5 5°4 46 33 O 544 7 4 7 16 3 3 40 3 1 58 O 544 4 0 - - 6. Noon. 84 124 O 334 76 75 4 S 58 I 3 4 564 3 ° 32 * O 3 * 8 South. v - 7 * 19 22 26 CO V- 16 424 0 104 3 ij - 1 " 11 8. Noon. 84 6 0 18 764 76 1942 53 18 zz 484 20 594 0 5 x 4 4 s - 9 - Noon. 83 48 0 59 76 75 19 55 48 23 2 1 53 75 744 4 V- xo. Noon. 83 10 2 0 76 75 19 27 17I 18 14 49 *4 28| 2 554 5 r- XI. Noon. 82 2 74 3 54 76 76 c h -- 12. Noon. 81 44 4 "i 4 77 764 4 7 1 2 54 37 34 5 2 xV 4 184 4 19 58 19 18 42 41 20 21 4 5-84 • 4 0 - 13 - 0 45 3 8 80 48 3 3 10 35 50 i6f 5 12 3 20 22 24 19 6 304 25 124 6 234 75 75 4 v - 14. Noon. 80 10 6 Z2* 76 7 K 5 27 44 4 9 5*4 17 134 6 524 4 $ -- i 5 - Noon. 78 49 . 8 -64 75 j 77 21 4 34 19 43 41 33 404 9 x 7 * \ 3 s - 16. 20 32 34 19 10 9 25 94 •West. xo 55 3 21. 55 19 43 5 °t 3 23 54 23 7 i "°4 3 -4 - i 7 - Noon. 76 48 11 4 75 7 34 20 7 29 18 43 40 18 23 12 x 24 4 ■ 21 24 13I 20 0 20 36 504 12 164 14 -
228 astronomical observations O-. s's. Time by Watch K. l ime by Watth A. No. 3. Altitude of the t <S's L L. Longi- ude West by K. Longi- ude West by A. Latitude South. Them A. nom" B. No. ofObs.j Remarks. H ' " H ' '' O / 0 O 0 ? Sept. iB. Noon, 75 444 12 3I| 75 73 * 21 58 48 20 39 24 43 584 '3 56 3 23 33 46 -^ 64 39 ? 4 0 36 33 73 594 3 h - 19 - Noon. 74 3 2 14 07 74 72 f 5 9 37 3 43 424 24 474 14 154 4 20 18 32 18 57 37 19 3 *i 15 24 724 72 6 22 1 394 20 34 Z44 43 47 15 29 6 o - 20. Noon. 73 24 15 38 73 72 f D - 21. Noon. 72 12 17 14 73 7 * 21 31 20y 20 2 64- 35 184 18 30 10 i - 22. Noon. 71 24 18 462 74 75 L - 2Z- Noon. 70 04 20 I2l 73 73 6710 4 36 2 12 59s 20 28 6 21 36 40 20 4 37 36 194 21 24 6 V -24. Noon. 69 1 21 3 54 724 72 ? - 25. Noon. 68 5 22 544 7-4 70s 20 20 55 18 46 oi 16 554 24 3 69 69 4 h -26. Noon. 67 6 24 17 72 73 5 25 38 3 5 ° "34 23 404 24 21 4 20 12 504. 18 36 49i 15 23 24 404 69 69s 5 0 -- 27. Noon. 67 2 24 44I 7*4 74 6 17 574 4 41 164 12 of 24 5 ° 7 20 46 55 19 9 28 23 184 29 19? D - 28. Noon. 66 404 25 294 7 i 4 72 20 10 46 18 32 6 16 5 \ 26 8 694 67 4 $ - 29. 21 35 6 19 54 544 36 38* 26 53i 4 8 - 3 °- Noon. 68 58 26 584 7 i 4 7 i I 5 27 48 3 47 7 19 42^ 27 44 5 20 19 14 18 37 494 22 164 27 234 5 jit Oct. l. Noon. 65 5 2 27 274 7*4 7 1 3 59 374 2 17 38 37 174 27 29 5 4 428 2 23 284- 35 59 t 27 29 6 4 38 474 2 56 09 29 1 27 284 5 21 34 S 2 i 19 52 2 39 35 ? 27 354 4 s Sextant made ?-2 Noon. 66 44 27 384 68 1 6c 1 [ by Ramsden. 66 24 2 7 404 Ditto by Dollond. 3 12 361 i 29 191 46 34 27 444 6 J? - 3 Noon. 65 57 28 94 664 67s 3 26 30 1. 41 56 4 i 59 28 144 4 21 19 35 i 19 34 5 39 474 28 54 4 O -- 4 - Noon. 65 274 29 24 641 62 20 39 57 18 53 '3 33 ll i 29 9 4 s - 5 N oon. 65 514 29 04 624 61 4 4 33 2 17 264 30 5 ? II 134 28 544 H Hazy.
ON BOARD THE RESOLUTION. 229 24 12 53 24 53 5i 54 57 6 55 23 6 55 30 740 1772. Time by Watch K. Time by Watch A. No. 3. Altitude of the ©'s L. L Longi- | Longitude Well tude Well by K. | by A. Latitude S. Ther A. morn* B. No.osObs. Remarks H ' " H ' " O " O ' 1 0 ' 0 v Oct. 5. 22 71O 20 ig g 50 471 29 40 4 F --> 6. Noon. 65 27 29 48s 64 61* 20 13 5 18 23 56s 27 25 31 2 * 4 N 1 1 Noon. 64 17s 31 21 63 * 604 4 29 14 2 39 4 i 25 50 31 284 4 "4 - 8. Noon. 63 16 32 45 * 63 * 62 4 12 25s 2 21 30s 28 484 32 56L 6 Very hazy. 20 23 45 18 31 47I 30 44s 33 49 5 ?-9. Noon. 62 24 34 o* 63 * 61 20 4 32x 18 11 us 28 27 34 204 4 Tj-IO. Noon. 62 164 34 284. & 3 * 62 5 6 46s 3 12 571 15 5 * 34 3 £ * 7 l 9 35 3 i 17 40 30I 23 50 * 34 424 4 O - II. Noon. 62 25 34 44 * 63 63* 4 13 29 2 18 34i 25 *T 34 464 4 20 1 12 18 4 oi 29 42* D ■- 12 Noon. 62 40 4 56 Zi 2 59 54 16 9* i 34 41* 34 48* 35 20s 63 64 60* 63s 62 60* 5 9 61 63 59 6-t 59* 6oz 63 r 63 63 65* 61 61 62 57 59 6 0 57 62s 6of 5 Very cloudy.
2Z0 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS 1772. Time by Watch K. Time by Watch A. No. 3. Altitude of the ©'* L. L. Long. East by K. Longitude East by A. Latitude 8. Then A. nom. B. No. of Oof. Remarks. H ' " H ' " O ' 0 ' O * O ' $ Oct. 20. 20 15 37 18 9 7 45 544 35 26 t 6 L -21. Noon. 65 94 35 39 65? 63 4 29 I2i CO e* 04 CJ 11 54 35 49 7 Very hazy. 19 38 27 "7 3 ° 49 i 39 6 4 8 04 33 494 36 44 L 5 Very uncertain. If - 22. Noon. 64 "74 36 52? 64 60 18 26 26s 16 17 43f 25 5o-rV 8 53 i 34 55 i 37 12 62s 58 5 $ -23. Noon. 64 18 37 i2| 63 64 h -- 24. Noon. 65 134 36 38 59 6.J 2 47 29 0 36 5ii 29 30s 11 324 Z8 58s 36 3 °? 57 i 54 4 20 42 37I 1821 2 54 2 35 45 t 5 O - 25. *7 5 i 36 15 38 42 23 5°i 14 9 t 41 34 34 53? 59 58 4 D -- 26. Noon. 67 5 2 i 34 39i 60 62 2 38 29 0 25 4 29 3i4 14 264 41 274 34 29 4 "8 4 13s 15 49 5 6 4 27 2l£ 14 594 42 104 33 44 62 59 4 <f - 27. Noon. 69 94 33 43 64 6ot 18 5! 22i 16 35 39 27 57-4° 33 39 5 L-28. Noon. 69 3i 33 4i4 66 67 3 27 44i 1 11 29 18 54 33 45f 7 2 -- 30. Noon. 69 56-4-3 33 5 6 62J 651 D Nov. 2. Carried both Watches on shore at the Cape Town, and compared them with the Clock B, by which the times of equal altitudes were noted, (See p. 14.) and found that Mr. Kendall's was too flow for mean time, that day at noon, by 1 h. 31' 4%7, from which taking 1' 11" on account of its going 5-8tns of a second a day too flow, and being set 7- loths of a second too fast for mean time, there will remain 1 h. 29' 53",7 - 22 0 2if 25"i for the longitude of the Cape Town East of Dfake's Island ; that is 18° 12'' iti" East of Greenwich, or o° io' 57" less than the truth. The Watch A (No. 3.) was too slow for mean time, the fame day at noon, by 3 h. 54' 25",9, from which taking 28' 7",9 on account of its going 14", 6 3 a day too slow, and being likewise set io"-f too slow for mean time at Drake's Island, we shall have 3 h. 26' 1 S^zr: 51 0 34'f for the longitude of the Cape Town West of Drake's Island j by this Watch; that is 47° i8'4East of Greenwich, or 28° 55'f more than the observations of Messrs. Mason and Dixon make it. The former of these Watches was I going i",2 a day too fast for mean time, when here, and the latter 1 30",642 too slow ; and at these rates I supposed them to go until our arrival at Dusky Bay, in New Zealand. I also supposed the longitude of the Cape Town to be 18 0 23'^ East of Greenwich. I have to add, that in carrying the Watches on board the siiip at this place, the Watch A (No. 3.) stopped. I went on board in the long-boat, by choice, thinking it would be less liable to motion or accidents than a less, and fat in the stern shears, with a watch on each fide. In lying the boat along-fide the ship, the Coxswain let her strike, but not so hard as to give me any apprehensions at the time; however on getting aboard, I found that this watch had stopped, and can assign no other cause. On the 17th I set it a going, and at 1 h. 2' 31' i, by Mr. Kendall's Watch, it shewed i h. 5' o" ; and I found it 1 h. 29' 39",2 too flow for mean time at the Cape on the, 18that noon. !
ON BOARD THE RESOLUTION. 231 Time by Watch K. Time by Altitude Longi- Longi- Thermom. z Watch A. of the tude Eali tude East Latitude S 1772 No. 3- ©' sL. L. by K. by A. A. B. r Remarks. H ' " H ' O ' 0 0 O CT 0 Nov. 22. 3 10 29 3 6 3 24 144 r About 3 or 4 miles N.N. { true off the Observatory. E 1 4 17 12 59 17 7 54- 22 Q 1 - >2. 17 5*4 l 7 29 34 us 55 62 5 5 - 2Z- Noon. 75 444 34 3 6 * 66 65 3 7 9 3 1 35 25 484 i7 434 '7 235 34 5 ir 67 62 4 -7 39 *9* 17 33 3 27 574 18 IOi l 7 474 35 i6f 4 7 46 414 29 341 15 394 15 10 38 465 4 n -- 26. Noon. 7i 524 39 3* 69 69* 2 50 18 2 40 94 3i 484 15 32 14 55 4 39 20 60 4 17 41 16 l 7 3i 22 27 43 16 l 7l 15 374 39 55* 53 5 ? - 27. Noon. 71 *4 40 5* 60 53 2 31 44* % 21 26 34 39* 16 39* 16 o| 40 17* h -- 28 . Noon. 79- 18 4 40 58 - 62 59* 4 17 38 21 l 7 26 8 ^7 i6f 16 284 *5 40 41 56 57 60* 52* 5 Very dubious. 0 - 29. Noon. 69 19:: 42 8 51 Great sea. D 3°- Noon. 69 15 :: 42 22 58* 55 Ditto. Dec 4 28 6f *3 4 i 18 24 42 28 56 46 1 Very doubtful. F i. 18 24 2 5 i 18 8 22 37 II| 18 22 17 2l4 43 34 5 S -- 2. 20 35 49 20 18 244 59 14 18 27 "7 22 44 24s 6 V -- 3 • Noon. b 7 374 18 44 25* 55 49 4 12 451 3 54 27 16 39 25 i7 265 44 43 5 f4- 17 53 48 l 7 35 *7 3i 524 18 3 2 17 24 45 234 5 2 if 43 i ? -- Noon. 66 26 45 45 53 44* 2 25 56 2 5 36 35 304 18 344 "7 255 46 0 46 6 A great sea. 18 6 34s 17 52 5o4 33 484 18 2 4i 17 o4 46 48s 50* 5 b 5* Noon. 6Z 9 47 9* 48 52 O - 6. Noon. 63 51:: 48 34* 50 38 Foggy. 3 0 25 2 39 12 29 414 18 27i *7 5 48 45 5 D - 7 Noon. 62 43 49 49 47 42 i Very uncertain. L - 9 Noon. 16 62 59' 49 45 44 36 17 43 0 l 7 42 3i 424 2 1 8* 19 37i 5° 5 1 * 4i* 34 4 14 -- 10. Noon. 61 444 5 1 4* 44* 3 6 * 17 56 8i 17 28 3°4 33 49 21 244 2 9 424 5i 37* 42 3 2 ' 4 r - 11. Noon. 61 4* 5i 49* 50* 34 1 56 52! 1 28 444 38 94 21 474 20 14 52 0* 4 O -- *3- 20 13 12~ f 9 41 21 51 29-Ar 22 94 20 29 54 53 6 v - 14. Noon. 26 58 104. 54 55* 49:- 33 1 59 5 r 574 37 71 2 I 594 20 95 54 57 5 S - 16. 17 58 18 I 7 22 28" 34 524 2 3 341 21 485 55 8* 5 -- i7- Noon. 57 571 > 55 16 53* 33* 5 48 454 5 12 144 5 7 A 24 434 22 55 55 8* 10 h 19. 4 44 47 4 5 33i 12 8* 26 45 24 124 54 15 3i- 10 3 o
2Z2 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS tm li . Time by Altitude Longi Longi- Them 10 m. 2 S O Watch K. Watch A. of the tude East ude East Latitude 8 . Remarks. 1772. No. 3 . ©'sL.L. by K, by A. A. B. 0 H ' " H ' " 0 0 O ' 0 cr G Dec. 20 18x4 2 [ 7 32 354 40 17s 29 24 27 284 53 5*1 1-2 3 2 ! 4 19 23 I 18 41 31s 49 244 29 25 27 28s: 53 554 33 4 D -1- 21. Noon. 59 6; 54 1 °f 50 331 2 15 10 3 1 2 3 t 29 50 54 3°f 46 341 4 18 18 48 17 35 581 41 4 30 20f 28 224 55 54 321 5 Bad horizon. <? -- 22. Noon. 58 22$ 54 54 52 33 L - 23. Noon. 57 52 55 25I 59 + 34 17 42 2 16 56 28 36 18 A 31 42 i 29 40 56 23 49 321 5 u - 24. Noon. 56 421 56 3*4 57 35 Tj - - 26. Noon. 54 39 5 8 3'f 52 31! 4 X 2 l§ 3 23 16 17 5 8 26 134 24 20$ 5 8 324 32 5 5 27 37^ 4 3 8 18 9 4! 26 134 24 8 5 8 324 3 19 4 0 18 14 10 42 11 24 434 22 354 58 224 471 33l 5 © - 27. Noon. 54 471 Z 8 20 54 36 2 37 25 1 47 8 30 49I 25 29s 23 11$ 58 20 5 CO c* Noon. 54 20 19 164 5 8 44! 5° 35 2 45 49? 1 54 4 31 42 21 254 5 8 53i 48 331 5 F - 29. Noon. 53 484 59 12 S - 3°* Noon. 53 33l 59 23A 56I 361 2 24 07 I 29 51 36 37t 20 30$ 13 154 59 27 5 17 73- 8 54 5 8 52 h Jan. 2. 4 6 48 3 7 351 27 of 10 19s, 9 4 29 13! 3 3° 3 24 3! 10 26 8 12$ 5 8 52 5 D- 4. Noon. 53 27; 59 A 52 33 Hazy. L - 6. 17 34 52 16 28 47 30 424 27 364 25 Hi 60 33s 44 34 4 17 41 47 16 35 42 3i 33i 27 364 25 H 60 33f 44 34 5 5 Ditto. 19 40 49 18 34 38 44 39i 27 574 25 35 60 364 Good. 4--7- Noon. 51 264 1 I 60 404 54 35 19 9 38 18 1 56I 42 38s 13 1 58? 29 424 61 18 45 34 5 s oN. 57 0 E. s -8, 19 9 38 22 2 24 42 384 . 50 264 Ship s course 8. E. at 5 miles -6i 22 53 344 5 4 an hour. 16 55 O J5 45 53 28 454 34 3°? 32 15I 61 36 49I 33l 5 h -9. Noon. 50 i5 35 56 6 1 36 561 35 19 18 16s 19 22 34s 44 24 33 42 61 54 5 r 0 N. E. by E. 19 18 i6{ 44 24 J Ship's course S. 6" 0 55 34 5 .O-10 23 57 ioi 42 10 1 at the rate of 3 I miles an hour. 5 x6 A2 5 16 39 46 29 24 36 5 8 ? 34 454 6z 24 46I 34 4 D -X I 16 38 17! 15 24 22| 27 37? 38 5i 35 534 64 114 50 35 5 19 16 272 x8 2 23I 42 26' 37 534 35 41I 6 4 i-4 56 5 $ -- I 2 Noon. 47 ui 64 ii4 35 18 14 22 16 58 45 37 204 3 8 35 36 24$ 64 164 49 Hi 5 Bad horizon. 8 - 13 Noon. 46 56 i | 64 164. JOi j .8 !i:i;
ON BOARD THE RESOLUTION. 233 1773* Time by Watch K. Time by Watch A. No. 3. Altitude of the £ 's L. L. Longitude East by K. Longitude East by A. Latitude 8. The A. morn. B. No.of Obf Remarks. H ' " H 0 0 O / O ' 8 Jan. 13. 17 0 247 15 43 6f 29 55 t 38 47 t 36 407 64 1 6 '7 9 5 15 5 i 47 30 49 t 38 44 36 36 | 64 1 6 U --- 14 Noon. 47 5 63 57 57 35 i 1 39 20s O 21 26 29 274 39 71 37 oif 63 54 t 5 17 1 25 '5 42 2ZJ 30 44 39 74 37 2| 63 35 t 52 35 5 18 8 45 16 49 36 554 - 38 551 36 63 32 6 18 30 50 '7 11 23 J 3 s 594 39 44 37 of 63 32 6 ¥ -- - I Noon. 47 18 63 324 587 42 3 28 41 | 2 8 17 26 38 5 i 4 36 494 63 3 't 5 19 6 49s *7 45 57 4 1 34 38 434 36 42s 64 23 5 h - 16. Noon. 46 81 64 31 56 35 3 22 45 2 1 16I 18 11 38 554 36 554 >64 55-1 60 347 6 18 32 39 *7 10 7 i 36 574 38 52 36 534 66 214 337 5 O r 7 - Noon 43 5 1 66 364 5 M 34 Very foggy. 18 9 23 i6 45 18 34 53 A 38 494 36 5 *i 66 14 46 32 5 Ditto. v -- iS. Noon. 44 16 65 59 f 52 344 Exceeding foggy. 2 43 24s 1 18 46 22 74 38 434 36 45 i 65 364 33 5 17 18 19 15 52 44 36 444 39 l8 i 37 ai-r 64 4 it 45 35 3 F -19. Noon. 45 334 64 29 5 M 35 2 41 36s 1 15 24 21 47 i 39 334 37 36 | 64 17s 34 t 4 16 56 9 '5 29 1 28 29 39 364 57 394 64 16 48 3.34 5 8 -- 20. 1 3 2 lZr 0 4 29 3 t 39 534 37 534 63 47 334 5 -6 55 17 i 5 26 33 t 28 49 40 28 38 3it 63 if 43 35 3 Very cloudy. V - - 21 Noon. 46 50:: 62 464 53 i 35 J Ship's CourseE. ' 21 53 46 174 N. E. 4 knots. 5 23 46 10 38 58 G N. 20 0 E. at 62 474 5 26 Observation.. 2 44 54 1 16 30 20 154 4 i 154 39 2 °4 62 28s 56s 354 7 17 10 z6\ 17 44 42 i 40 114 Ship's Course N. E. 1 4 20 18 47 5 1 3*4 by E. 4 knots. [ 5 ° 3 1 4 8 - 27, Noon. 5 1 4 ° 1 56 28 514 35 23 48 x1| 22 9 33 37 154 5 1 10 49 " l8 i 56 15 52 36 5 23 57 474 22 19 9 i 5 597 51 1 8| 49 26s 56 Mi 5 2 36 3 0 23 52I 22 44 14 32 484 5 1 8f 49 i6f 56 13s §2 36 5 2 24 36 0 45 5 <H 16 4 -rV 5 i 9 l 49^ 18^- 56 64 5 I( 5 5 554 '4 26 13s 28 87 51 4 i| 50 5 55 1 47 38 5 i 1
2Z4 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS Time 8 / Watch K. Time by Altitude Longi- Longi- Thermom. Z\ 1773- Watch A. No. 3 . of the ©'s L. I. tude East by K. ude East by A. Latitude 8 . A. B. O O Remarks. H ' " H ' " 0 0 O O * I cr % Jan. 28. Noon. 53 24 ? I 54 284 ? 5' 364 lamsden's Qua 53 24 54 284 5 Doltond's Quad. 2 - 29^ Noon. 55 74 52 29 I 53 t 38 T? ■ 3 °- 16 9 16 14 24 35 31 464 57 3i 55 174 51 13 48 38 5 G N. 37 0 W. at Q -- Zl- 20 33 3 >4 55 554 I the2dObservat. 50 5°f 22 53 H 43 *44 ) Ship'sCourseN. I N.E. 5 m. an h. _ 15 46 30 14 on 28 334 57 294 55 46 49 177 47 404 5 D Feb. i. Noon. 57 541 48 5i 4 54 4ii 17 18 i 5 f 1 5 30 n4- 44 44 59 38 57 56i 48 337 48 43 F -- 2. Noon. 57 524 48 364 564 457 0 5 20| 22 16 484 30 424 60 31 58 224 49 4 H 4 •5 44 39 13 54 59 30 204 61 igi 59 39 i 48 45 i 514 437 5 N - - 3 - 15 46 if 13 54 344 29 174 59 50 58 14? 49 4 52 424 5 - 4 ' Noon. 56 384 49 15 564 45 0 1 47 22 9 44 3 i ,194 59 "4 57 384 49 3 ° 58 44 4 5 I 48 20§ 2Z 56 94 - 14 94 59 l 9 z 57 45 i 49 374 60 431 9 16 3 7 14 9 544- 3 1 *54 59 °4 57 2 .9 49 157 53 40 5 I -... ... 5 - Noon. 56 28 49 7 591 41 0 37 46 22 44 2 25 394 58 5 °f 57 18 48 404 57 41 4 17 54 i 7 i 15 59 284 47 4 2 t 58 44 f 57 48 64 5 1 43 5 h -- 6. 23 1 52 40 244 59 35 48 64 48 447 5 "5 12 57 13 i6 46 24 27 6i 384 60 6 48 394 44 5 Ramfden's Qua. Dollond'sQuad. O - - 7 - Noon. 56 6f 56 7 48 5 i| 48 51 4 i 54 44 0 23 53 22 27 6 24 564 62 4 1 ? 61 9 49 44 63 45 5 5 - 8. 18 42 25 16 42 394 52 234 64 27 50 0 5 r - 9 - Noon. 54 18 : 50 if 57 * 45 i 5 3 6 371 13 35 23 29 19 I 64 44 r 63 18 49 5 i 4 48 40 5 17 i 4 14 59 434 41 474 > 65 594 64 334 [ 414 5 L - 10. Noon. 53 54 64 334 50 64 52 i 1 23 44 3 l l 23 42 45 28 114 I 68 22i 50 234 53 4 1 5 ! ' Ship's Course S. W 11. 20 54 574 23 5° 37* 48 I 9 * . 27 185 by E. 74 miles an hour. 0 N. 42° 51 22 4 6 W. at 26 Obs. 1 23 5° 37-s 2i 47 124 27 185 68 22| 66 58 5 1 344 6 14 26 10 12 21 44 20 474 70 2 68 32 52 28 1 I 5 1518 8 13 14 40 28 42s 70 41 68 41-5- 52 3^4 5 15 39 464 -13 35 16 3i 394 50 334 50 32I 70 51 68 42 52 324 52 474 52 48? I 5 Ramsden'sQuad. Dollond's Quad. ? -- 12. Noon. \ s 6 i 38 23 45 S 2 ! -21 40 48 23 551 7° 59i 69 37 5 2 204 | 38 5 13 45 44 11 39 4 1 i5 44 t 72 I2i 7° 5°i 53 344 j 48 5 14 22 51, ,12 16 43 21 15 j 7 2 Hi 70 534 53 374 35 5
O-r 1 +o O -r 1 +o o" O ON BOARD THE RESOLUTION 235 l 773' 57 16 46 35 *7- 13 43 j 8 11 28 58 19 36 82 47 8i 344 57 534 44 32 13 59 5if 11 45 34 21 49 82 544 81 42 57 54 44 3 2 18. Noon. 43 21 - 57 57 53 564 33 23 43 281 21 28 34 14 324- 8 4 324 8 3 74 58 24 33 19. Noon. 42 27: 8 9 33i 58 30 524 35 13 48 1 II 30 324 23 35t 9° 434 58 47i 434 544 32-1 20. Noon. 4i 49 4 58 46s 4i 4 8 4 58 47; 35 23 33 10 21 15 2 11 264 9 1 3 8 4 90 284 S 8 464 2 1. 13 15 5 10 54 21 19 564 93 21s 92 14 59 184 4 54 34 2Z- Noon. 38 29: ( 'Sun N. 80 E. 61 if 544 35 24. 2Z- 15 37 27 18 11 7f 33 19 J 37 344 1 Ship's E. 2 course S. miles an >60 49 56 364 . hour. 22 17 39 19 5 I 19 17 164 95 274 94 26s 60 494 57?. 36s 12 40 59s 10 13 37 16 24 97 74 96 84 60 584 26. Noon. 37 i5t 61 8 57 36s 27. 12 52 IO 21 274 20 5 io 3 4i! 102 46 60 3 45 35? 28. Noon. 37 4 r t 59 574 5o7 3 64 3- Noon. l6 34 17 36 144-: / 60 167 55 I 8 19 9 58 29 O t V no 54 tog 1 1 60 13s 5- Noon. 35 6z: n6 584 Co 384 554 37? i9 44 27s 17 5 24 21 58 r 16 0 Co 264 6. 20 37 31 17 56 3 8 15 I it 118 344 n 7 474 59 5 6 t 54 37 7- 11 8 12 8 24 334 20 274 120 35 1J 9 53? 59 44 46 s 35? 8. Noon. 34 Sii 59 44 /- , 3 19 4 8 571 34 52 59 434 b 4 ? 40 i7 4 43 19 8 120 39s 120 6f 59 444 9- Noon. 35 >74- 58- 55-x 5ii 37 10. Noon. 8 24 74 35 43 58 6 484. 35 11 12 30s *7 47 129 154 128 34f 57 531 44 35 s Ship's course S.E.' 11. i5 46 13 34 544 J 6f miles an h. 5 8 io4 17 7 3 1 3° 524 ) O N. 17° W. I at 26 Oblervat, . .o H Reiaarks. 5 Very hazy. 4 5 ctamfden's Dolland's QT 9 3 Very cloudy. Ditto. 5 Very hazy. 4 Dallond'i Qj_ Ramsden's Q_
2z6 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS Time by Altitude Longi- Longi- Thermom. 2 0 1 773* Watch K. Watch A. No. 3. of the 0's L. L. tude East by K. tude East by A. South. A. B. k c Remarks. H ' " H ' " 0 ' 0 0 0 cr it March 11. 10 44 30 7 54 294 14 28-A5- 130 49i 130 ioi 58 55v 47 374 5 ? - 12. Noon. 34 7 58 557 564 394 h - 13. Noon. 33 57 58 42 534 364 l8 32 33 15 40 2 20 tJ.I- j^j 133 I4i 132 371 S 8 43f 53 35 5 0 - 14. Noon. 33 54 58 214 514 33 18 37 Si 15 43 *5 18 45s 135 52s i35 i7t 58 23 5 11 56 214 9 x 20j 24 414 138 32s 1 37 58s 58 584 4i 3'4 5 D - 15. Noon. 32 48 59 47 50 34 Ramsden's CL 32 474 59 4f Doliond's CC 10 9 284 7 13 0 14 74 I4I 2lf 140 481 58 524 4 1 334 1 12 22 20 9 2 5 45i 27 424 141 49- 141 15? 58 527 4 i2 3° 43 t 9 34 9 28 184 141 454 141 n| 58 527 6 F - 16. Noon. 32 37 58 51I 53 354 18 57 84 16 0 7 15 564 143 74 142 34? 58 53 551 36 5 L - 17. 19 821 8 334 146 434 58 3 1 V-18. Pocket Watch. 14 48 354 16 31 53 33 264 . 26 36s Ship's course N. E. byN. 6| miles an hour. ■56 264 2 5 17 50 26 14 50 16 17 *9t 149 3 °i 148 £9? 56 8 ?-19. 9 37 3° 6 34 43 16 45t 1 53 3 i 152 34 53 4 3 t 5i4 454 5 h-20. Noon. 36 3 J 4 53 2?4 544 45 17 §6 484 14 53 27 14 29-rV 154 164 153 471 52 48 5 0 -21. 10 45 24 7 39 16 29 184 158 I4i 157 48f 50 ut 564 4 -22. Noon. 39 124- 49 55 47 •7 i§ 34 14 8 36 18 204 158 52| 158 274 49 3 ° 5 976 5 59 j 9t 17 5744 160 144 '59 52f 48 37 514 47 5 $ - 23. Noon. 40 584 47 454 58 49 >7 *3 2 4i 14 5 3 17 44 t 4 161 84 160 45! 47 3° 58 49 5 S-24. 16 48 51 iz 48 39-i 18 53s 163 94 162 47s 46 23s 60 544 4 n -25. Noon. 41 42| 46 144 S 8 54 8 40 55 5 28 124 16 5 2i 45 5i 36 S 2 4 nT 1 I I W T e got moored in Dusky Bay, New Zealand; but the place was so inconvenient, the weather so bad, and I had so much wood to clear away before I could erect my Observatory, that I did not get the Clock agoing before that day sevennight after- wards. On S , April the 6th , I compared both Watches w ith it, (See p. 25 and 26.) and continued to do so every day until the 22d, from whence I found that Mr. Ke ndall's was gaining at the rate of 64726 a day on mean solar time, and . that of Mr. Arnold's (No. 3.) 101",05 1. Reckoning from the Capt of Good Hope, at the rates they were going when there, the former made the Longitude of the Observatory, a' this place, 165° 12' 37", and the latter 165° 3 8' 35" East of Greenwich. If we reckon all the way from Drake's island in Plymouth Sound, at the rates the Watches were going when at Greenwich, Mr. Kendall's will give the Longitude of the Observatory 16 8° 3' 16''z East of Drake' Island, and Mr. Arnold's 247° c \ 24"; that is 162 0 47' 9", and 243° 35 ' Past of Green- wich. As the Watch made by Mr. Arnold stopped at the Cape of Good Hope, it may be necessary to strew how I have made these deductions from it. On No-
^ o ON BOARD THE RESOLUTION. 237 Time by Watch K. Time by Ahitude Lo.igi- Longi- Thermom" 2 1 773* Watch A. No. 3 . of the 0's L. L tude East by K. tude East bv A. Latitude S. A. B. 0 n Remarks. H ' " H ' " 0 ' Q " Q 0 cr vember 14th, at noon, it was 4 h. 12' 33",61 too (low for mean time at the Cape, and it was then losing at the rate of 90^,642 a day; wherefore it ought to have been too flow for mean time on the 18 th, at noon, by 4 b. 18' 36",2 ; but as I then found it only 1 h. 29' 39,"2 too flow, it is plain that it had been set faster than it would otherwise have been by 2 h. 48' 57". If from this we subtract 1 h. 5' 36", what it would have been too stow according to its Greenwich rate of going, and what it was set too stow for mean time at Drake's Island, there will remain 1 h. 43' 21" for what it should be too fast for mean time at Drake's Island on <f April the 6th, at noon, by the time at Dusky Bay; which being added to 14 h. 48' 4",6, what it was that day actually too slow for mean time at that place, gives 16 h. 31' 25"",6=247° 5 1 24" for the Longitude of Dulky Bay, East of Drake's Island, as above. It appeared, moreover, that the Watch made by Mr. Kendall was too slow for mean time at Dusky Bay, on o April 25th, at noon, by 11 h. 13' 7^,3 ; and that made by Mr. Arnold, (No. 3.) by 15 h. 20' 5",8. On these suppositions, and that the true Longitude of the Observatory was 166° 18'East, I computed the Longitudes of the ship between this place and Queen Charlotte's Sound. <? May 11. Noon. 26 2lf [45 34f 58 441 16 51 49i 12 17 40 5 3 2 t 165 55 165 355 45 26 i 5 -4-13 10 18 0 22 12 f 170 18A 4i 54 4 ? - 14. Noon. 29 *7 t 4i 5 2 \ 6 5i 58 16 38 361 li 59 39f 6 20| 170 28 17° if 41 49 5 16 47 33 4 7 35 II I7i *7° 59? 170 2q| 41 19 61 53 5 h - 15- Noon. 29 43? 4i 13 62 Z6 O- 16 8 19 47 3 36 20f 8 9-^ 172 3 8 t 172 4 i 40 2 5- 56 5H 5 9 5° 45 20 £4t 172 35? 40 29A 1 I Noon. 29 55 40 33 i z 9 55 t 40 33 i $ - 18 Noon. 29 I2f 4i 3 Although we anchored in Queen Charlotte's Sound the 18th, I did not attempt carrying any Instruments on shore there before the 24th, being all that time in daily expectation of leaving it; but seeing then no likelihood of going soon, I carried the Astronomical Quadrant on shore at a beach near the ship, and was fortunate enough to geteqtlal altitudes that day, the 30th, and June 3, (fee p. 48, 49.) I noted the times by Mr. Kendall's Watch, and compared Mr. Arnold's (No. 3.) with it. The comparisons were, 1 773 * Watch K. Watch A. H ' H / U May 24. -3 46 8f 8 50 Q -30. 15 3 i6i 9 57 V- June 3. 12 45 64 7 32
238 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS *773* Time by Watch K. Apparent Time. Altitude of the 0'sL. L. Latitude S. Longitude Eait by K. Ther A. Tiom . B. 2 0 0 O Remarks. H - " H ' " 0 0 ' 0 £ Hence I found that the former was now gaining at the rate of g", 05, and the latter losing at the rate of 94", 153 a day on mean time. The former, allowing its Dusky Bay rate, gave the difference of Longitude between this place and that y° 26' 30" and allowing its rate of going as determined now, 7° 45' 54" ; that is 173- 44' 39", and 174 0 \ 3" East of Greenwich. If the rate which Mr. Arnold's Watch was going at when at Dusky Bay be allowed, it will make the difference of Longitude between those places 6° 40' 56 ''; and by allowing the rate it was going at here 7 0 34' 24" that is 172 0 59' 5", and 173 0 52' 33" between this place and Greenwich. If their Greenwich rates be allowed them all the way from England, the Watches will place Queen Charlotte's Sound 174 0 ~f and 271° 50' 33" East of Drake's Island respectively-, that is 169° gi'-L ^nd 267° 34' 25" East of Greenwich. May 28th, that lock of Mr. Arnold's Watch, which Lieutenant Cooper had the key of, got spoiled ; I suppose by a wrong key being given, by mistake, to Lieutenant Pickersgill, who attended that day for Lieutenant Cooper to open the box; so that on the 29th it could not be opened. After unlocking the other two locks, a screw- driver was introduced between the box and lid, and the lock forced by turning the screw-driver round: I am certain no injury did, or could possibly happen to the Watch by doing this. The lock being damaged, it was taken off, and the Watch trusted under the other two until June 3, when we got it repaired, and put on again, and Mr. Cooper locked it as before. I have been thus circumstantial, because when we came to wind the Watch up, June 7th, at noon, I found the fuzee would not turn, and we were obliged to let the Watch go down, and stand ever afterwards. Mr. Kendall's Watch was too slow for mean time at Queen Charlotte's Sound, on June 3, at noon, by 11 h. 38' 17",9 7 -, and in computing the Longitude of the ship by this Watch, in our run from hence to Otaheite, I have supposed its rate to be as above-mentioned, and that the true Longitude of the Bfeach in Queen Charlotte's Sound, where I observed, is 173° 46' i"f, which results from Mr. Bayley's Observations made here ; and the experiments mentioned on p. 49. v June 7- Noon. j 25 55t 41 8f 594 55 9 6 3*5 11 41 48 s 174 39i 56 5if 5 F - . 8. Noon. 25 2 i 41 564 58 5 2 16 1 39 6 3°r 42 6f l 75 20 6 oi 5 2 3 I - 9- Noon. 24 1 : 42 571 5 84 55 9 41 34! I 5 43i 43 494 178 49 i 57 5 3f 6 if.- to. Noon. 22 54 : 43 544 60I 54 T? -.- ■ 12. 9 51 59 15 52s- 46 8: : 5 - Very uncertain on 5 - 14. 8 53 33t 21 16 18 IO 42A 46 4i4 185 Q! 6 J account of the Latit. $ - Iff Noon. >9 44x 46 464 4 8| §6 14 3° 0 2 53 26 9 3 2 tV 46 52 185 29? 48 56 5 ? - l6. 9 27 33 21 52 8 4 20 46 22 4 if - " 7 * Noon 20 8* 46 56s 49 s 8 38 16 2 l 941 10 274 45 59 t 187 43 t 54f 49 k 5 ? - 18. Noon. 20 3 °t 45 54 55 48 14 10 0 2 44 25s 11 1 44 45 48 188 zoz 55 47i 5 0 - 20 8 8 39 21 4 16 11 or 44 26 194 Of 48s 5
ON BOARD THE RESOLUTION. 239 1773 Time by Watch K. Apparent Time. Altitude of the 0 's L. L. Latitude S. Longitude East by K. The A. morn. B. O k n Remarks. H H ' " O V 1 * ! ' cr D June 21. 8 Noon. 21 5^4 44 26 53? 504 4 4i 21 5 31 II 3 44 34t 195 45 53 504 5 F - - 22. Noon. 21 47- 44 36 55l 524 11 12 20 f 2 I 4 2 t 44 Ship's course East, 4 rZ 46 55 11 3 2 t 35t . 2 miles an hour. 5 *3 46 55 2 49 53 II 32s 44 37 196 °4 5 8 -- 2 Z- 18 Noon. 2 I 46 44 37* 56 504 l3 53 3 r 24 IO 13 ! 44 37* 1 97 23 5 14 6 46 3 2 4 56 s 8 34t 44 37* 197 24 7 Very cloudy^ ? -- -A- 8 7 if 21 10 52 12 53tV 43 3t 196 34f 58 54 6 h -- 26. Noon. 23 *7t 43 9t 60 55 1 Very uncertain. 13 59 16 3 4 32 IO 54t 43 l 7* 196 584 3 O - - 27. Noon. 23 55? 42 34 59 53 ? Very foggy. v - 28. Noon. 24 7- - 60 524 6 49 18 19 58 28 3 5°? 42 374 198 11? 58 51 5 Very cloudy. 7 57 37 21 7 5 12 5 j t 42 39t 198 144 3 $ -■- 29. 5 6 * Noon. 2.3 4 8 * 42 46 r 6A 524 14 6 3 18 42! 9 3° 42 54 198 35t 5 7 3° 35 20 43 44 9 4°r 43 5i 199 15 5 8 3°. Noon. 21 14 6 23 32i 43 6 59 51 ? 7 52 47 *3 2ii 43 117 201 22L 55 48 5 % J"ly 1 . Noon. | 23 23 35 347 43 43 74 7t \ 56 49 Ramsden's Quad. Dollond's ditto. *3 37 7 2 59 18 11 5*t 43 7f 201 364 57 49 ? 5 6 5 r 48; 20 17 51* 6 25 43 24 ' 202 40 524 45 6 S - 2. Noon. 2 3 44f 43 2f 564 47 14 3 3°f 3 317 7 554 43 24 203 1 * 48 6 7 18 54f 20 49 54 10 337 43 14 203 57t 53 5 h - 3- Noon. 23 334 43 18 564 47 ? i3 5i 27 3 2 5 50 8 27 A 43 22 J 204 42i 61 49 5 9 24 44 21 261 O -- 4> 48 Noon. 22 58 43 5 8 54 48 ! r 3 54 3 25 12 8 194 43 48 20 5 234 55 49 6 7 4l 24 21 22 50 H 314 43 18 206 45 5 Cloudy, and great sea. ' 4i 45 54 24 2 20 H 23 3'4 364 s O N. 20 E. at ist- v -_ 5- 7 10 12 43 IlT 4 0bs.andN.44W. at 3d. Ship's course E. 5 • 3 Ditto. 14 3 2 tt?^ l N.E. 44 miles an h. 5 12 54 20 2 38 45; 14 32 A 43 5 207 3°? 55? 49 i - 5 More certain. 6. 7 3 i3l 20 48 10 1 1 12 -t 42 19 ^ 207 5°i 5 F -- 26 Noon. 24 59i 42 7r 564 51 -3 15 3 13 26s 11 i8| 41 55t 208 164 5 6 21 44f 20 9 32s 6 37 41 23 208 44? 55 51 7 Hazy. 8 7- Noon. 25 5 1 41 22 57 52 ? l3 37 19 3 27 11 9 56 A 41 22f 208 53i 5 By Lieut. Clerke. 7 42 3 6 f 2 i 37 28 i7 2 9 A- 41 52t 210 29? 54+ 514 5 3 Q
ASTRONOMICAL observations 24.0 I 773- Time by Watch K. Apparent Time. Altitude of the ©'• L- L. Latitude South. Longitude East by K. Them A. 10m. B. .. I O O c cr Remarks. H H ' " 0 ' 0 0 G N . 42 E. at ist] 8 July 7- 7 42 17 29xV 41 observat. Ship's l 5 If ■. ... 8. 10 5 1 9 24 2°4 j 5 5 course E. S.E 64 6 miles an hour 13 53 43 3 52 8 6 2t 42 64 211 14? 58 514 4 6 43 29s Noon. 11 84 42 354 212 43 I 5 5 -- 9- 24 47 : 42 394 544 5"* 1.3 25 i6{- 8 39t 42 46 s 2IZ i3l 58 5* 4 6 28 57 ' 20 42 if 9 59f 43 274 215 2f 6 h ' 10. 6 44 49 § i3 8| 43 334 217 28 6 O- 11. Noon. 24 71 43 344 54 47 12 40 9 3 5 3i 11 4ir 43 324 2l8 5 554 474 5 6 14 37f 20 44 26 10 374 43 i74 219 23 52 47 9 6 52 53 21 23 28 '5 164- 43 i74 219 334 8 Dollond's Quad. Ramsden's ditto. L- 12. Noon. | 24 24 33t 33l 4 3i 43 1544 154 54 49 f lZ 2 7! 3 34 I2| 8 14 43 144 219 57 564 49 6 5 46 59 20 21 3 7 4§j 43 2 1 220 2 94 53 *7t 6 7 3 32 21 §8 27 17 I 3t 43 24 220 424 6 Dollond's Quad. Ramsden's ditto. $ - *3- Noon. | 24 24 56 5 6 l 43 43. 564 494 { lZ 4 56I 7 34i 42 574 221 24 57 49 4 Very cloudy. j _-. 16. Noon. 27 4i 244 51 46 A great sea. 12 40 33 3 28 46 10 53* 4i 11 224 144 5*4 464 5 6 22 48I 21 17 l4 17 5i2 39 53 22 5 53? 48 4 J} -- 17* Noon. 28 5 J f 39 434 226 444 12 39 49 3 35 49 11 74 39 19 i54 49 i 45 4 5 2 4i 19 58 53 8 2t 38 44 226 204 49 474 7- Q . .■■■■ ■ 18. Noon. 30 49 s 37 55 4 226 51 49f 12 52 23 i 3 4i 47i 18 11 37 49 244 53? \9 7 V - 19. Noon. 32 2I| 36 34? 226 554 57 13 1 n| 3 5 8 3° 9 36t 3 6 254 414 574 534 7 4 55 45 19 52 29I 8 384- 35 38 226 354 584 5 - $ - - - 20. Noon. 33 47 35. 20 464 Z 84 J --- 21. lZ 0 11 3 53 r6z 13 2f 32 24 22 5 63 61 5 Very hazy.' 4 56 47 19 48 2 10 23T 3i 234 225 194 62| 61 5 n - 22. Noon. 38 24? 3i 54 644 63 i3 9 47 3 59 59 12 554 30 474 225 54 65 624 I 6 4 44 28 8 401 29 34 224 4i? 63 6i4 7 Cloudy. ? - 2Z- Noon. 40 194: 29 22| 66 634 J r® N. 46' W. at zd t 0 -- 25 10 20 1 38 8 \ Observation. Ship's (pi j 12 14 5i 24 304 29 CO 223 204. 1 course N. E. by E. 4 {Cloudy, miles an hour. J 5 20 45 20 6 4 1 5 284- 28 58s 224 4 •• 68 66 7 Cloudy. D -- - 26 Noon. 41 27s 28 52s 691 66 -1' 12 2 14 2 48 47 -b. 26 42 28 46 224 20 7i 67 5
ON BOARD THE RESOLUTION. 241 1773 • Time by Watch K. Apparent / ime. Altitude of the D'r L. L. Latitude South. Longitude East by K. Thermom. A. B. 2 O O O Remarks, • H H ' " 0 ^- 0 O 5 July 26. 12 27 54 3 13 45 22 41 28 454 224 214 6 4 49 51 l 9 37 34 IO 431 28 1 224 3'4 69 6ii 5 F - 27. Noon, 42 40 27 53 + 70 67-1 11 50 194 2 37 43 29 12-4 27 5 °f 224 32I 70 69 6 4 55 38 11 4 27 43 224 * 3 * 69 66 Cloudy* L - 28. 18 Noon. 43 4 27 43 464 70 69 12 25 3 2 244 25 32 f 27 45 223 70 68 6 5 7 i 4 19 47 46 13 I of 27 38 s 222 S8| 694 68 7 Very cloudy" U -- 29. Noon. 43 304 27 3 o 4 704 69^ 12 51 57 4 3 34 214 12 22 27 26s 223 24 74 7 o 6 Hazy. 5 12 534 '9 57 55 15 294 27 84 224 5 5 r -- 30. Noon. 44 I I 27 4 t 7'4 7 ' h - 3 '- Noon. 45 I ot 26 294 691 68 *3 47 4 i 4 36 284 9 3 2 t 26 94 225 34 69! 68 8 o Aug. 1. 4 39 55 '9 3 ° 55 12 i8| 23 254 22 5 39 684 68 5 D 2. 48 Noon. 48 45 4 23 13-rs 694 69? 1 3 6 3 57 3 ° 18 54 23 6f 22.5 341 5 V. 4 3 ° 38 19 22 13 11 57 22 2 i 4 225 43 * 704 694 5 S - 3 - Noon. 5 ° 7 2 2 87 ?' 7'4 '3 41 55 12 7 i 22 0 225 53 i 734 724 5 4 40 54 (9 32 43 1 3 474 2 I 27 225 53 4 72 72 5 9 " - 4 * Noon. 5 i '3 2 I 18 73 * 74 13 34 534 428 6 i 3 464 21 12 226 144 5 6 rZ 27 21 10 34 33 324 20 467 227 2 i 4 77 764 5 if 5 - Noon. 52 71 20 29s '3 59 244 4 58 224 7 434 20 284 227 4'4 80 774 5 " 4 34 334 19 34 284 '5 34 *9 544 22 7 564 764 77 3 ? 6. Noon. 53 16 19 474 774 78 i? - 7 - Noon. 54 281 18 5 734 75 5 * 44 334 zo 29 48 27 42 18 I I 224 '84 5 Very cloudy. o. -- 8. 28 Noon. 55 3 2 t 18 44 744 75 5 74 22 474 '7 444 222 54 5 Cloudy. b 38 57 4 21 14 49 37 24 -7 444 221 574 6 3 ) - 9 - Noon. 56 23 *7 4 'i 754 764 5 4 i 424 20 8 34 23 544 17 244 219 574 76 74 i 4 b 53 24 21 20 41 38 304 *7 2^4 219 49 4 &■ 10. 36 Noon. 56 587 *7 22\ 764 784 13 4 i 4 4 1 37 21 481 >7 21 219 '34 77 I 77 5 5 1 4+4 19 21 25 l 3 53 x '7 174 217 55 75475 3 Very -hazyv s - ii. Noon. 57 "4 •7 *. 7 x 774 , 784 '3 3 i 25 3 48 56 24 41 '7 274 217 22-4 5 5 24 544 1 9 38 9 17 42 17 124 2l6 '84 76s; 764 3 5 59 10 20 12 214 25 6 17 I2| 2 I 6 '74 5 Hazy,,. u. 12 Noon. 57 364 l 7 I I 78 784 *4 27 32 4 38 3 9 i 7 I I "5 37 ?8t; 79 5 5 22 43 19 30 36 16 64 >7 l64 I 214 571 79 764 7
242 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS 1 773 ' Time by Watch K. Apparent Time. Altiiude I of the ©'* L L. Latitude S Longitude East by K. H H ' " 0 ' O O $ Aug. 13 36 Noon. 57 494 17 * 6| 14 28 4 34 8 •5 64 1 7 164 214 2 24 5 42 57 i *9 1 of 17 r 3 213 I2f t? - 14 Noon. 58 9 : '7 15 '3 59 4 3 57 5 1 23 1 if 17 174 212 40 5 *3 i 3 ! 9 7 23 10 594 l 7 424 2 I I 3 r 5 37 7 *9 3 i 364 16 264 17 43 t 21 I 37 i 0 - * 5 - Noon. 57 564 -7 46s 14 40 58 s 4 32 554 15 264 17 46s 2 IO 57 ? 6 1 27 20 49 f Q 44 5 - 16. Noon. 58 *74 17 44 ? 8 .- 18. 59 12 3 48 40 25 124 17 464 2 fO 18 8 go 22 20 374 5 ° 36 i 7 464 2 IO 22 V - *9 Noon. | 59 12 i 7 4 74 \ 59 *3 i 7 464 I *3 15 48 3 5 27 34 48 4 i 7 464 210 19-1 8 37 14 22 27 64 5 1 51 i 7 464 2 IO 2 2f ? 20. Noon. I 59 33 f 17 46 } 18 t 59 33t 194 i 7 45 ? lZ 55 i 3 8 404 34 •7 464 210 20| 8 47 54 22 37 42 53 374 17 464 210 *94 h ■ ->. 21 Noon. 59 5 i 17 464 s 60 124 Q 464 W. W. 1 O -- 22. Noon. 7 2 94 284 1 Thermom. A. 79 7 H 79 i 79 ? 79 784 784 7"4 7"z 784 80 80 79? 81 81 79* 81 80' 804 si 8 i 5 76 75 764 B. 79 i 79 78 79 79 77 77 80 80 79 8o| So 79 80 80 79 ? 79 ? 79 79 ? 84- 82 8o| 75 4 74 78 Remarks* 51 A little dubious. 5 Dollond's Quadrant. Ramsden's Quadrant. At anchor inOaitipeha Bay, Otaheite. A little uncertain. Dollond's Quadrant. All with Quadrants made by Ramsden ] About five in the evening we anchored ting up our clocks and instruments, the clock B, (fee p. 52.) noon by 13 h. 50' 2 2",4. The Bay S. W. f S. 6 m Dollond's Quadrant. Ramsden's ditto. in Matavai Bay, and lost no time in get- On the 27th, I compared the watch K with and found it too stow for mean time on that day at Consequently, allowing the rate it went at in Queen Charlotte's Sound, it will give the difference of longitude between that place and Point Venus in Otaheite 36* 13' to 4 ; or, taking Queen Charlotte's Sound to be in 174 0 13' 30" East, which is the mean result of all the Observations which have been made there both by Mr. Bayley and myself, it will place Point Venus 2io° 26' 4 o "4 East of Greenwich. If we reckon all the way from Drake's 1 stand at the rate it went at when at Greenwich, before the voyage, it makes Point Venus 206° 5' 54" East of Drake's Island; that is, 201° 49' 47' East of Greenwich. The watch was gaining here at the rate of 8",863 a day on mean time, and was too stow for mean time at Point Venus, on <J August 31 at noon, by 13 h. 49 47: on which suppositions, and that the true longitude of Point Venus is 2 io° 25 10 East, the following longitudes of the ship are computed.
-pd " ON BOARD THE RESOLUTION 2 43 4773- "4 Sept. 2. ?-3. *- 4 - O - 5. - 9. 5 - 10. O-12. ]>-13. s-15- ?-17. T?-l8. O-19. S 2 0 . $ 2 1 .' L-22 u -- 23 ?-24. Jj-25. Time by Apparent Altitude Latitude Longitude Ther morn. Watch K. Time. sL. L South. East by K. A. B. H H ' " 0 0 0 Noon. 64 591 16 c - 1 - * 2 764 77 Noon. 65 284 l6 45 664 664 *5 2 5°i 14 574 x 6 441: 208 5xi 777 77t 46 Noon. | 65 65 5° T 51 16 16 45 444 1 77 77 14 22f 18 5°A 16 441 208 527 79 78 14 49 37 l 8 io-V 16 44l 208 53i 797 784 15 0 26 Noon. 15 24 s 16 44 a 208 54 797 784 66 35* 16 44; 77f 79 Noon. 66 5 2 l 16 504 79 794 14 35 xo 2 26 564- 22 I9S 16 454 208 24 A 81 81 * 12 43 22 47 32L 16 454 208 264 Noon. 68 46! 16 45f 14 4i 30 4 25 23 21 5 t 16 454 208 24A 78 774 H 44 33 4 28 34 20 2 X T 16 454 208 264 78 77 4 46 Noon. 69 8JL 16 454 7 8 77 l 5 12 4 5 6 54f 13 484 16 454 208 254 77 76 l 5 16 56 5 1 3i 12 574 16 454 208 264 76; 7 Si Noon. 70 404 16 5 77 78;- 1 3 44 i5f 3 26 40 35 224 16 574 207 47; 77 774 5 5i 57 '9 3 1 44 2 X 5 t l 7 xo'- 207 6 77 77 Noon. 70 38 17 J 7 206 78 79 15 7 34 4 44 37 17 144 *7 22 241 77i 79i 5 24 10s 18 59 19 i3 294 >7 364 205 547 77 Noon. 70 38; 17 40s 78 794 l 5 25 591 4 58 22s 14 4 *7 47 205 2 Si 78; 794 15 33 481 5 6 20 12 I"4 l 7 47 205 28 78; 794 Noon. 70 38; 18 3t 80 8.x 5 43 421 Noon. 16 3 2 t ,8 19 203 5 8 79 784 8 70 424 18 224 797 81 15 10 4 36 54 '9 x 7 t 18 284 203 4-r 8oi 8o| 15 30 29 14 45 18 29 203 3 8 80' 8o| 15 43 54 11 2 54- 18 29 203 37 804 8oi 15 55 45 5 22 31 8 34A 1 8 2 94 203 41 ^oi 8o4 5 48 43 19 13 26 4 5 18 36- 203 H 77 74? Noon. 70 471 i8 4 ItV 77i 40 22\ 4 210 *7 294 18 454 202 234 77 /64 6 1 46 19 20 XI 18 45-A '9 47 201 3 1 7 1 69? Noon. 70 44 '9 84 74i 73 5 53 56 19 6 35 i5 39 t neno harbour in U- 3 2 4 5 -> 5 5 6 5 5 5 6 3 5 liatea. Cloudy. Cloudy. Very cloudy. Ditto. Very cloudy. Ditto. Very cloudy. Cloudy. 3 K
244 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS * 773 - Time by Watch K. Apparent Time. Altitude of the ©'* I- L. H ' H ' " 0 *2 Sept 25. 1Z 53 4 i 2 55 39 42 5 if 7 38 57 20 35 38 36 24! 0 - 26. Noon. 70 374 r 6 3 23! 4 56 44 15 7 t 6 9 22 18 59 38 14 21I r -27. Noon. 70 4 6| 15 16 84 4 2 46 b 27 44 t 6 8 581 18 48 45 s I 5 6 4 6 34 3°4 17 45 T F - 28. Noon. 70 464 9 33 39 22 6 44 56 lS 4 8 29 Noon. 70 434 i 3 44 3 2 i 5 37 51 454 6 25 53 12 4 8 i . V ■ ■ 36' Noon. 71 26 14 42 40 3 4 48 41 184 7 35 59 19 54 20 27 314 r Oct. ' 1 Noon. 71 ZH 16 11 2! 4 26 40 22 43 A i? ^- ■ 2. Noon. 72 3 t 14 29 55 4 6 '94 8 15 '7 20 28 43 35 4 44 U -4 Noon. 73 6i l 3 59 49 2 12 22 53 374 F _ r Noon. 3 73 5 2 i I 73 524 10 29 9-f 22 41 56 65 3 A L _ _ _ g Noon. ) 73 524 l 73 52^ 15 14 441 3 27 27 37 94 10 3 1 44 22 44 3 8 65 484 n - .■ Noon. 74 144 15 36 24 3 49 7 "* 3* 18s 8 59 of 21 10 12 45 46 i 9 22 i8f 21 33 35 52 57A s --- 8. Noon. 73 3 S f 16 57 42 5 9 2 9 73 474 8 46 61 43 2£f T? -- 9- Noon. 73 374 7 43 364 i9 53 53 28 3 6 ? O -- 10. Noon. 73 431 16 1 10 4911 2 7 55 8 42 3-4 40 Z8f 9 3 1 36 2l 36 IO 5i 3°t t 9 3 1 3 6 51 3ot \ d - 11 12 25 564 7 i 32 ] 1 Longitude Thermom. 2; O Eait by K. A. B. O O Remarks. O / '97 '7 75 73 t 5 '95 56; 73 * 7 '* 5 73 * 73 195 5 72 i 7 i 5 i 94 15I 7'4 71 ? 5 7 H 7 i 193 2't 72 70 5 Very cloudy. 191 37s 72 7 ' 4 1 9 1 334 724 724 5 189 534 724 73 5 723 724 189 30s 5 187 56 73 70 4 71 70 Very hazy. 187 64 7 1 70 4 186 74 69 67 5 Cloudy. 7 °+ 70 185 21 70 69 5 In EnglilhRoad, 7°4 7*4 184 554 7 i 74 5 J Eaoowe. 184 494 7 i 7 i 4 5 7 i 7*4 1 Cloudy. 184 Z244 724 72 3 Oollond's Q. j Ramsden's. 7 '? 744 In Van Diemen's 184 32s 724 744 6 > Road at Ton- Dollond's Q^, gatabu. Ramsden's. ' m ; 724 75 ? 184 304. 724 724 8 Very cloudy. 184 314 724 724 6J 724 73 184 284. 72 724 5 The Road E. r mile,. 184 4 t 73 73 * 5 184 §5 73 734 6 75 7 6 4 184 I2f 764 75 5 . 184 474 724 7 °* 4 734 734 183 47 ? 74 70 6 704 694 183 I2| 7 ' 70 4 * 69 69 4 j 182 19s 69 69 6 s Ship's Courses. I W. 4 miles an 1 by 7 h .5 6 4 Latitude South. - J 9 55t 20 20s 20 254 20 30 20 35 20 40A 20 44 t 20 574 20 58 t 21 3 t 21 274 21 20f 21 284 21 14f 21 I I f 21 iz4 2 I 204 2 l 21-1- 21 244 21 20 § 21 20f 2 1 l 6 | 21 4 ? 21 4i 21 4t 21 4t 21 4? 21 4 21 4x-5- 21 4r 21 4i 21 4i 21 44 22 l4 22 l4 22 4i 22 22 234 22 28 22 364 2 2 4^-5- 22 561 23 40 23 42 s 23 514
ON BOARD THE RESOLUTION, 245 1773 " Time by Watch K. Apparent Time. Altitude of the H'r L. L. Latitude South. Longitude East by K. The, A. morn, B. No. of Obs. Remarks. H H ' " 0 ' O * 0 ' D Oct. II. 15 5 1 3 54 54 3 1 124 24 67 182 0 7°4 694 4 7 42 10 26 144 25 177 181 262 694 697 5 8 2 43 20 3 3 1 30 5 °i 25 m 1S1 234 694 697 6 $ ' ■■ - 12. 16 Noon. 7 1 38 25 264 72 704 34 3 1 4 34 2i 22 i 94 25 5 4 181 7 71 704 5 8 41 53 20 39 30 38 414 26 55 180 324 69 684 5 8 IZ- Noon. 70 24 27 * 3 t 704 70 7 2 4 i 18 57 384 l6 204 28 27 179 5 it 684 664 8 ' 7 7 54 x 9 2 544 17 294 28 27 179 534 684 664 5 V -- 14. 6 35 45 £ 18 29 20 10 244 29 47 179 304 68 65 5 9 - *5- 26 28'- Noon. 68 51 30 16 7i4 684 *5 3 20 7 38 24 4 3 ° 32 179 3°4 7i 70 5 16. 6 39 254 18 32 56 1 1 272 3i 164 l 79 281 674 65 6 h -- Noon. 67 21 3i 4 1 t 694 68 *7 15 15 5 8 42 15 294 32 OtV 179 27? 684 67 5 9 4 10 20 57 40 41 464° 32 37 179 277 66f 66-4 5 O *7- Noon. 66 24s 32 4i4 694 69 *7 35 524 5 29 184 11 2lf 32 517 179 26 68 66 18. 6 42 4i 18 37 16 12 514 33 24 179 424 664 64 6 D - 8 N oon. 65 4"4 33 464 69s 66 5 10 Noon. 29 53 * 35 40 66 4 644 2 Cloudy,' F -- 19. 63 52 : 35 58 68i 664 Ditto. 7 3 34 Noon., 17 324 37 27 179 384 644 6.4 5 S --- 20. 62 234 37 474 64 607 14 49 2 7 2 42 514 44 9 i 37 584 179 23 65 614 6 6 48 514 J 8 39 544 l4 144 38 544 178 484 62 594 6 it -- 21 Noon. 6i 27 39 6 6z4 62 14 48 52 2 37 54 44 5 *i 39 104 178 44 644 634 6 ! Portland S. by W. 4N. 2 or 3 leagues. 8 52 524 20 35 304 36 184 40 54 176 42 6it 58 6- Black-Head 8. W. 2 or 3 leagues. r - 22. Noon. 60 404 40 14 627 594 I 15 32 15 3 14 554 37 584 40 257 176 43 634 604 Cape Turnagain S. W. b.W. about 4 le. 23 Noon. 60 474 40 284- 58 53 t C CapeTurnagain W. d 4 S. about 2 leag. 15 50 33 t 3 33 *34 34 541- 40 284 176 43 61 58 6 8 26 39 20 7 57 3 1 23I- 41 2 74 1 76 24 60 574 5 ' o 24 l 7 33 46 5 13 384 16 *9l 41 57 176 624 62 6 Very hazy, and great sea. D 25. Noon. 59 344 42 23 §2 594 Ditto. 7 45 47 19 23 17 23 28 42 5°4 i75 27 594 544 5 46 58 ©N Ship's eourse 11 5 42 s. - N. W. by N. 6 miles an hour F 26. 46 Noon. 59 5if 42 L 27 1 l 3 24 58 ni ON. 26° W. 4 1
►e- o 246 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS 1773 ' Time by Watch K, Apparent Time. Altitude of the 0 's L. L. Latitude 8 . Longitude East by K. H ' " H ' " 0 0 ' O f S Oct. 26. 17 53 20 5 29 22 *3 53 42 ot '75 44 L - 27- Noon. 61 3: 4i 354 17 14 41 4 50 434 21 1 St 41 47 6 Q5 4i 8 9 58 19 47 39 28 27A 42 3i '75 3*4 if - 28. Noon. 60 424- 42 16s -6 51 34 4 - 4 28 37 25 3 't 42 207 175 22s 10 23 53 22 2 49 5' 45-V 41 494 '75 5'4 +0 1 vo Noon. 61 334 4i 45 t 17 28 56 5 6 25 18 4 6i 41 42s '75 304 h - 30. Noon. 61 25:: 42 13? O 3 1. Noon. 6 i 40 :: 42 19 r Nov. 1. 9 18 47 20 Al 4Q 4 1 14A 174 28 Therr liom, A. B. 574 53 574 58 604 57 * 574 56 59 i 58 6'4 56L 57 524 574 524 58 53 59 684 604. 57 554 53 z O o C cr \ Remarks. CapePalliserN.-A W. about 8 leagues dist. Cape PalliserW.by 8. about 5 leagues. t Cape Palliser N. W. about I 4 leagues: hazy,&kigh sea. Hazy, and a high sea. 5 5 6 Cape PalliserW. f N. about 10 leagues. Cape Palliser W. | N. about 8 leagues off. Cape Palliser W. about 5 leagues off. 6 Very hazy, and a great sea. Ditto. 5 Cape Palliser E. J N. t about 6 leagues dist. $ 2. We anchored in Charlotte's Sound, after beating off the Mouth of Cook's Straits, for a fortnight, in one of the heaviest gales of wind almost ever known. I got up my Clock and Instruments as soon as possible, and compared the Watch K. with the Clock every day, from the 6th to the 22d, (See p. 65.) and found that the Watch was then gaining 9^,091 a day on mean time, and that it was too stow for mean time, at Queen Charlotte's Sound, by 11 h. \\' 4/',7 on the 6th at noon. Hence, allowing the rate at which it went at Point Venus, it will make the difference ot Longitude, between that place and the Sound, 36° 26' 29"; that is, it makes the Sound 1733 58' 4i"t East of Greenwich. Allowing its Greenwich rate all the way from Drake's Island, it will place the Sound 171 0 36' 25" to the East of Drake's Island, or 167° 20' 17"t East of Greenwich. Lastly, it was nh. 38' x7",97 too slow for mean time, at this place, June 3, at noon, and gained then at the rate of 9",05 a day,: consequently it should have been n h. 14" 46'', 17 too slow on November 6, at noon; but as I found it only 11 h. 14 4",7, it is manifest that the Watch has erred from its true rate 41",5 in the interval between these two times. In computing the following Longitudes of the ship, I assumed the Watch's rate of going as above-mentioned, that it was 11 h, 11' 42",3 too slow for mean time at Queen Charlotte's Sound, on r the 22d, at noon, and that the true Longitude of the Observatory was 174° 1/ 4't East of Greenwich, which is what my Observations, made there this time, gave it. % - 25 7 59 '2 1927 8 29 364 -75 22-4 64 61 I 5 t Cape Palliser W.N. W. ' I W. 3 0- 4 leagues off. ? - 26. Noon. 68 56 : : 4 ' 52 644 634 Very hazy. 7 50 21 19 19 16 28 204 43 °r '75 454 64? 5 Ditto.
ON BOARD THE RESOLUTION 2+7 4. ) mm I i?73 Time by Watch K. Apparent Time. Altitude of the &'* L. L. Latitude S. Longitude Ealt by K. The A. B. 1 O r Remarks. , H H ' " •0 O ' O ' K b Nov. 27. Noon. 67 32 + 43 26^. 62 62 17 J r 38 s 4 4i 46 28 14 43 50+ 176 5 + 63 + 6l 5 7 48 48 lA 20 12 28 40+ 44 18+ 176 29 62 54 5 2> " 29. Noon. 66 44 44 36; 64 + 55 17 12 3i 4 45 §0 27 47+ 44 50 177 8+ 64 54+ 5 7 51 24+ 19 28 3 3° 19+ 45 34+ 17S 3? 56s 48 5 1 $ -- 3°- Noon. 65 4tzL 45 49+ 59 49 | 17 34 9+ 5 12+4 23 19s 46 3+ 178 35? 60 49 5 Very cloudy. I Dec. 7 54 25+ i9 35 37 3i 43+ 46 54 179 10+ 56 48 5 Very hazy. j 9 1. Noon. 64 35" 47 4+ 59 49+ Very cloudy. 1 V- - - 2. Noon. 63 48 21 + 57 46+ Ditto. ' ¥ -- 3- Noon. 63 0 i 48 56+ 5b+ 47 Hazy. b ' -.. 4- 5 44 32 17 26 i 1 I 39+ 5° 4+ 179 57 + 54 45 A o - 5- Noon. 6l 59 50 14+ 62s 46+ *7 48 5°+ 5 28 49 21 47+ 50 18+ i79 37+ 63+ 46 + 6 6, 8 7 49 19 47 0 33 5 ' T 50 38+ 179 133+ 57+ 47+ 6 D -- 26 Noon. 61 26:: 50 54+ 65 49 Very cloudy. 10 38 22 19 18 54 0+ ^52 53 i-O 0 00 6 F - 7 16 Noon. 59 20| 53 7+ 63+ 49 lZ 15+ 3 57 40 35 53+ 53 35 + 180 31 60 48+ .6 7 24 47 19 916 28 7+ 55 1 1+ 181 7+ 49 52 6 Cloudy. 8. 9 23 5 o 21 7 51 44 22+ 55 18+ 181 it 54 45 6 Flying clouds. 9 -- - 16 Noon. 56 54+ 55 39+ 57+ 43? 29 53 4 16 22 32 5 6 -r*r 56 4+ 18 1 41 61 43 6 9 42 23 21 29 21 45 40+ 57 44+ 181 54+ 55 45 6 n __ 9* 10 12 14 54 5 39+ 48 53 52 t ? 58 43 A 5 3 g r f Ship's course S. 8. ? X E. 6+ miles an hour. 6 6 Hazy. 16 2 3 25 + 33 12+ 58 22| 182 21+ 62 + 43+ 3 ? - 10. 9 52 46 2i 57 25 46 43+ 60 3i 186 38* 5r+ 39+ 6 Cloudy. b --- 11. 16 26 Noon. 52 6 60 44+ 57+ 39+ 11 4 18 26 3i 59+ 61 11+ 187 23+ 56+ 39+ 6 O - 12. 16 Noon. §0 9* 62 46+ 54 32L 25 55 4 44 57 28 47 63 4 190 26s 59 35 6 Very cloudy. 18 52 25+ 7 13 24+ 12 34+ 63 190 561 1 3) - -~ *3- 7 5 19 44 52 3 1 5 ! tV 64 38+ 195 45+ 42 3i+ 6 <f 14. Noon. 48 n 64 55+ -1 3 3 '4 34? 16. 1 5 5° 45 4 36 54* 29 30 65 I2f 197 32 51 35 6 V - 57+ 41 + Noon. 48 54" 64 15+ 52 33 A great sea. ¥ 17- 11 12 23 58 48 43 | Lying too, Ship's ^■5 c Head N. Eastward. 6 6 15 35 11 + Noon. 28 23 A 64 Z l 204 59 I 56 33 6 o -- 19. 36 48 27+ 64 47 + 57+ 34 14 49 30 38+ 64 49+ 211 24 6 v - 20. Noon. 47 18 65 58 55 33 <? -- 21 Noon. 46 29: = 56 48 55 34 Very foggy. L I- 22. Noon. 45 50 67 26+ 50 33 Very good.
248 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS 1 773* Time by Watch K. Apparent Time. Altitude of the ikl's L, L. Latitude S. Longitude Ealt by K. Therr A. nom, B. O b O Remarks. H H ' " 0 0 0 cr r**> 5J Dec. 22. 5 54 42 20 II 26 33 5*4 67 134 221 34 41 O T t D 1 4- 6 Cloudy. V - 2Z- Noon. 46 4 67 12* 53 35 ? - 24. 14 46 55i 5 8 42 26 *5? 67 5 223 4 53 33 6 16 9 43 6 33 2 18 Ht-s 67 3 223 26* 55 33 10 - 2.?. Noon. 46 52t 66 2X| 50 34 o - 26. Noon. 46 574 66 141 56 37 *4 52 4l 5 24 29! 24 4t 66 6 226 *f 58 35 6 5 *7 54 § 19 52 11 32 2 3t 65 5*f 226 354 47 36 5 r - 27. Noon. 47 *6f 65 534 53 35 *4 12 541 4 46 57 28 28* 65 46* 226 354 524 34 6 8 - 29. *4 4l IO| 5 9 29 26 6| 62 10 2 25 29* 34? 6 n - ' - ZO. 4 55 271 19 *7 59 29 244 59 56 224 474 47 33 6 s -- 3 1 * Noon. 53 *54 59 40 54 35? *5 16 36 5 39 23 22 us 59 38 224 58* 63 35 6 5 54 19s 21 14 40 43 2 I-J-4* 59 1 223 544 50* 344 6 *774 • Noon. i? Jan. 1. 53 394 59 us t 61 1 [W. w. 53 394 59 1 if f U A 2 0 w 2 6 1 Mr. Gilpin. -5 64 33 6 IZ IO l 7 434 58 48 223 3 2 ? 59? 37L 3 22 16 17 38 47 16 3-4 58 4 223 Si 5*f 34i 6 o 2. Noon. 54 474 57 S 8 T-5- 61 38L 6 8 4 374 22 10 23 5° 2o44 56 52| 5 -- 3 Noon. 55 54 56 464 55 36 *4 *3 55 4 17 36 32 4 St 56 27 220 64 6i| 39 6 F -- 4- Noon. 57 39 : 54 55? 59? 46* 6 9 56 20 21 42 38 38s 53 57 222 5 5-i 47 5 S - 5- Noon. 58 44 53 434 55? 464 6 11 9 20 29 32 40 34 52 23 224 us 5°4 46 6 "4 - 6. Noon. 60 21 5* 59i 55t 47 *4 34 284 4 55 18 27 I 2 t -j- 5 1 42| 224 5o| 55 50 6 5 27 *4 19 53 l°4 34 454 50 47 226 16 52f 47'? 6 6 *7 7 20 43 27 42 304 5° 454 226 18* 6if 6 ? -- 7- Noon. 61 37 50 364 50 14 28 *5 4 57 4 8 26 394 50 *9? 226 55 4 66f 50? 6 6 *3 55 20 48 47 43 4°t 49 *94 228 36 56 47? 6 6 29 *9 21 4 14 46 2 - * 4- 49 *9 228 36? 6 - 6 59 11 21 34 16 50 2 7t 49 *7 228 39? 6 L •■" r " - 8. Noon. | 62 62 5 8 574 49 49 7t 8-4o 6*4 49 i j 87 W. W. { By Mr. Gilpin. 14 *5 38 4 54 47 26 584 48 594 229 43 654 50 3 Cloudy. 5 5 74 19 52 56 34 494 48 254 23I 581 54 49 6 0 - 9- Noon. 63 404 48 *7 61 5*4 Cloudy. 4 23 22 19 22 4 2 Q 344 48 8f 234 5°i 57 49? 4 D - IO. Noon. 63 4- 48 rr 4- /T 64 5 2 i 6 4 '7 64 19 23 31 29 42 ~f 47 5°i 236 54 54? 484 F IT Noon. 63 48 L 47 5 *f 62 50
ON BOARD THE RESOLUTION. 249 1771 lime by Watch K. Apparent Time. Altitude of the 0's L. L. Latitude 8. Longitude East by K. Ther A. morn, B. 2 O O Remarks. H / ✓/ |H " " 0 0 vj cr t 11. 14 41 49 5 53 23 17 it 48 19? 238 164 65 50 6 4 8 17I 19 24 51 29 49 tV 49 13L 239 344 57 53 6 s 12. Oi co 0 Noon. 61 56L 49 34 6 z 4 56 13 5 18 ZZ 22 5°t 5 o of 240 244 65 55 6 % -- - 3 - Noon. 59 19: 52 if 63I 534 Foggy. ¥ - 14. Noon. 57 15: 53 5 si 6zi 5*5 Ditto. 13 24 I If 4 39 49 r 28 36;- 54 27 239 394 644 544 6 Ditto. b 15 - 4 49 6 20 6 23s 34 38; 55 594 24O * 7 55 48 6 A great sea. O - 16. 18 4 5 Noon. 54 30: 5 6 i"f 6i| 474 Ditto, and hazy. 14 5 37 39 20 16-z 56 5°t 240 44 63r 49 6 4 17 58s Noon. 30 22f 58 7 241 i6f 52 434 6 v I?- 52 8 52 3: 58 34 60s 4i4 Foggy. 12 30 5344 58 58 s 241 57? 584 4i 6 $ - 18. lZ 3 46 4 32 1 28 i84 61 6 243 184 564 4*4 6 S 19. 2 18 54s 17 48 49 16 264 62 28 243 534 5i 474 6 V 20. Noon. 47 2 5l 62 314 60 40 12 53 59i 4 21 43 28 5ii 62 374 243 2 s4 6i4 38 6 ON W. 1 N. at' ? - 21. 8 46 51 47 16s >62 26 ' 26 Obferv . Ship's 4 9 41 19 45 42f course E. 4 N. 4s 6 miles an hour. 12 44 20 4 13 7i 29 344 62 20 f 244 1 59 38 10 h 22. 4 0 14 19 49 3 29 384 62 184 248 57 47 17 6 O -- 2Z Noon. 46 574: 62 22f 551 384 Cloudy. v 24- 4 47 i4 20 41 44 33 25 65 "5* 250 344 54 41 F 2 5- Noon. 43 26s 65 244 604 421 Hazy. H 35 14 6 28 46 14 I2f 65 45 250 224 62 19 l 6 3 3 2 18 55 54 22 374 66 25 250 i5l 50 5 "• 26. Noon. 42 1 : 66 354 58| 40 - 27. Noon. 40 29 £ 67 5*4 60 374 ¥ - 28. 3 13 8 19 12 io 22 584 69 41 252 34 464 344 3 52 58 19 52 6 26 174 69 424 252 5 4 % - 29 Noon. 37 '5ii 69 584 53 364 12 42 32 4 44 23s 13 3~ 7 ° 18 252 474 6 3 5 D - 3-- Noon. 38 4:: 69 13 58* 34 3 32 17 19 40 27 25 off 68 13 254 3 4 4 585 35 6 3 44 3 19 52 13 26 2 5 z_ 5- 68 I2f 254 34i 3 F Feb. 1. 7 8 4i 59 19 58 38 38 38 57 59 :: 474 68 I? 5"i 35 3 5 (Latit. by two J Alt. 68" o'f S. 5 24 1 8 34 2/t [0 V. Ship's course N. E. by 3 7 31 17 39 304 N. 4 miles an hour. * 4 S 2. Noon. 39 354 67 74 54 37 4 3- Noon. 40 1 66 25 57 35
250 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS Time by Apparent Altitude Longitude Th er ■nom* 55 1 ? * 774 * Watch K. Time. S' s L. L. East by K, A. B. O O Remarks. H H ' " 0 ' 0 O * cr % Feb. 3. 12 34 1 4 48 25 21 8 66 18 258 477 5 3 11 5 1 19 39 35 f 24 5 °l 6.5 464 2 59 40 49 34 5 ? -4 Noon. 40 26s 65 414 584 347 11 42 3 4 10 2 25 4744 65 3 6 259 444 61 344 6 2 55 13 ig 22 29 23 16|- 64 28s 259 36 49 37 t 6 h -5. u 48 44 4 15 5 of 25 2 65 63; 259 35 f 6 5 28 34 37 IOt, 60 5 0 -6. Noon. 41 38 63 534 161 17 f 394 3 21 48 19 55 23s 25 57 t 61 3 1 i 46 37 5 D Noon. 44 8 61 5 i 55 40 12 35 24 5 10 3 °k 19 13A 60 3 °i 261 414 607 38 5 Cloudy, & bad horizon. S -9. 3 42 32 20 17 221 i 1 23 t 54 24 262 15 54 ? 44 5 V■ -10. Noon. 5 ° 394 53 364 262 12 60 47 12 18 45 k 4 55 *4 20 597 53 9 64 47 5 Serong wind, and -11. 8 20 5 ° 37 ' 0 N. 76 W. ac 2ti ? 8 10 39 50 53 ! 20f 5 l 33 k ■ obs. Ship's course N.A-E.6i-m. anh. 4 4 a high lea. 1 3 8 50 5 52 5*1 11 43 51 124 264 174 62 4 49 i 6 A high sea. 3 IQ 47 19 54 14 28 35 k 50 2 j T 263 584 53s 474 4 Cloudy. h -12. Noon. 53 21 i 5 ° 15 597 474 *3 44 16 6 27 32 6 6| 50 I I 263 57 64449 4 O -13. Noon. 53 4 5 ° 124 604 52 6 11 49 35 i 4 27 49 i 24 44 + 5 ° 264 262 43s ^ 4 t 5 i 4 v -14. 12 *4 28 4 55 9 20 14 49 28 263 2if 68 5 i 4 6 3 6 42 19 45 252 26 42-V 48 55 262 534 59 s 51 6 Thick fog. $ -15. Noon. 53 41 : 48 55 634 54 8 -16. Noon. 54 30s : 47 45 • 5945 6 Foggy. 3 2 4 i 19 50 3 27 2 5 t 46 32? 265 15 6 o~ 153 6 Very hazy. 6 25 10 54 1 0 + ©N. Ship'scourse 5 Ditto. -17. Noon. 55 37 ? 46 i 7 i N.4 m.an ho. >55 Ditto. 7 38 55 55 icf 46 i 5 i By two Altitudes. 5 Ditto, 3 11 37 20 0 19 29 2 It 44 377 265 264 551 - 52 6 A high sea. ? - 18. Noon. 57 231 44 1 of 564 504 Ditto. 10 17 0 38 53 - 43 52 i 265 6f 6 Ditto. 3 19 57 20 3 7 3 ° 6$ 42 24I 264 5 58 ! 55 4 Cloudy. Tj --* 9 - Noon. 59 6f 42 5 ? 6 04 5 H 12 1 8 4 44 4 / 21 20| 41 437 264 I2f 63459 6 3 20 24 20 6 20f 30 46'4 40 21 264 474 64 61 6 O -20. Noon. 60 5 x t 39 59 s 66f 66 io 35 3 1 3 22 13s Z6 47 t 39 43 f 264 59 69 66 10 2 1 2 s l8 4Q 27 16 97 38 21 263 25 6 5 -2 1. Noon. 62 351 37 534 265 2 if 68f 67s 11 42 20 4 3 [ 3 1 23 4 6| 37 3 *s 1 10 2 43 43 23 531 3 b ■24 264 52 7 o| 68f 5 F -22 -- Noon. j 63 57 36 104 7 2 s i 65
ON BOARD THE RESOLUTION 251 1774 Time by Watch K. Apparent Time. Altitude of the H's L. L. Latitude S. Longitude East by K. Ther A. morn, B. 2 O O n Remarks. H " H ' " O ' 0 ' 0 cr Feb. 22. 3 7 23 *9 45 3*4 26 547 36 34f 262 5i4 5 8 --- 23. Noon. 63 4 36 4if 714 69 12 10 47 4 46 34 20 244 3 6 48 262 69 5 2 32 41 .8 26s 37 i64 261 *34 69 71 6 V 24. Noon. 61 56 37 277 73t 71 4 6 24 34 25i 37 49t CO 424 72 70 6 ? 25. Noon. 61 7i : 37 534 7 1 69 Cloudy. 12 37 30 i7 454 37 45 258 184 7*f 684 6 3 30 2 7\ 19 48 1 5} 26 43t 3 6 53* 2 57 46? 69 654 6 h - 26. Noon. 61 59 3 6 394 674 65 >3 27 22 5 43 *9 8 24-A 36 11 2 57 i8| 704 644 5 4 42 55 20 57 26 40 254 35 4 256 564 67 5 0 -- 27. Noon. 63 22s 34 54 68s 684 6 12 31 9 4 45 33 *9 53tV 34 334 256 544 68 3 40 7 *9 53 54 27 594 33 244 256 444 7°i 694 5 Very cloudy^ 5 - 28. Noon. 64 44f 33 9 72 7*4 3 13 11 19 25 19s 21 584 32 27 256 20 5 F March 1. Noon. 65 144 32 17 744 7*4 12 55 24 582 14 524 32 6 256 26s 76 i 734 5 3 37 46 19 51 11 27 20f 3i 2 i-j. 256 q8 b s - 2. Noon. 65 544 3i 134 74 74 12 33 5 4 52 9 18 S~r 3 1 54 256 47? 74 6 3 39 401- 19 55 *3 28 54 30 39f 2 57 9 7 3t 7* 5 It - 3- Noon. 66 84 30 3 6 ? 75 74 12 47 53 15 2 3° 264 257 4*t 784 75 3 3 23 53 19 42 49 25 25 3° 6 257 59t 754 74 5 ¥ - 4- Noon. 66 24 29 584 754 744 12 18 35 4 3 8 *7 20 457 29 524 258 10 784 7 6 5 2 44 9f 19 4 28 16 554 29 46 258 184 5 % 5- 46 Noon. 66 15 29 444 774 75 12 34 4 55 4 16 574 29 4i7 258 17! 6 Cloudy. 3 35 43 i 19 55 2 27 394 29 304 258 2 ? 6 O -- 6. Noon. 66 147 29 2l4 76 74 12 57 3f 5 *4 52 12 3 °Ti 29 117 2 57 39 761 73* 6 2 4 b 46 19 2 0 16 44 28 36 256 594 6 Cloudy. v - 7- Noon. 66 53 28 I9r 754 74t -3 3 *2| 5 16 24 11 59? 28 2 256 284 74 5 2 42 25 18 51 26 1 3 377 27 i6-l 255 25 76 73t 6 t - 8. 56s Noon. 67 45i 27 3-A- 76 754 3 39 24 20 27 6 253 194 74i 6 S - 9- Noon. 67 *9 ?7 '64 764 77 1 1 55 59 , 3 54 25 29 43i 27 7 252 44 764 76: 6 ■4 10. Noon. 66 53 27 94 76 764 11 37 17 3 27 4Q 35 174 27 9 4 250 43-s 76 76 6 5 8 6 20 55 34 40 4 -To' 27 io4 249 564 76 75 6 ? 11. Noon. 66 27 + 27 104 764 75 3 T
ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS 2Z2 1774. Time by Watch K. Apparent Time. Altitude of the G'r L. L. Latitude South. Longitude East by K. The A. rmom. B. No. ofObs.| Remarks. H /' H ' " 0 0 ' ? March 11. 5 20 50 5 6 47I >3 24-r 2 7 n 4 2 49 334 764 -754 6 h -- 12. Noon. 65 574 : 27 174 754 754 tOff the South Point 3 53 16 19 37 20 22 50 | 27 11 249 24 744 -754 2 J of Easter Island. 76 c Off the North Point 0 - 13. Noon. 65 45 27 64 74 I of ditto. v -14. Noon. 6Z 20 2 7 7 A 744 744 1 At Anchor off the N. ro 43 8 2 27 20 46 S 3 ro 27 8 2 49 34 754 744 6 J W. lide of ditto. S -1 6. Noon. 64 33 i 27 7 744 75 ? Off the N. W. side of 11 38 3 2 3 3 35 4 t 27 7 248 574 6 I ditto. 3 33 8 19 15 41s r 7 22|r 26 56 248 324 75 754 6 n - -- 1 J, Noon. 64 28| 26 48 774 77 12 37 27 4 18 17 2 3 5 26 38s 248 5 * 77 764 5 Cloudy. 3 11 41 18 50 34s 11 43 i 26 16 2 47 344 764 754 5 --- 18. Noon. 64 484 26 4! 78 764 11 41 57 f 3 20 42 35 314 - 26 0 2 47 3 r 4 5 5 3 IS 20 40 28 35 54 i 25 64 247 7 i 6 Very cloudy. h ■ 1 1 ■ > lp # Noon. 65 374 - 24 5i| 774 77 I . J 11 23 3 2 3 0 6z 40 61 24 4i4r 246 57 77 4 764 4 i Clouds. 5 8 3 i 20 42 48 36 45 t 23 2ll 246 20| 774 774 5 1 0 --- 20. Noon. 67 44 2Z 1-f 774 77 5 20 24 20 51 18s 39 4 tV 21 23s 245 28 77 774 3 V "■ - ■ 21. Noon. 68 384 - 21 3 i 784 77 11 40 i 7 3 ro 15 38 5 1 * 20 48s 245 134 6 Cloudy. F -- 22. Noon. 69 57 19 21 78 76 11 37 20f 3 3 3 1 40 39 tV 19 l 3 2 44 14 76 754 10 5 36 20 20 58 30 4 i i 7 l 18 184 243 I2f 77 764 5 8 - - -. 23. Noon. 70 441 1 8 9t 79 774 5 39 14 20 57 6 41 7 i 17 16 242 54 77 754 6 V - 24. Noon. 7 1 24 17 64 787 77 *3 21 3 ° 4 38 9 r 18 57 t r6 55 241 461 79 77 5 4 2 5 2 19 16 18 -7 381 16 184 240 564 784 764 b ? - 25. Noon. 7 2 5 t 16 14 79 78 13 3 o 4 4 14 454 - 24 3 j A 15 5*7 240 304 794 764 6 3 5 1 10 l8 59 12 13 361 15 4 t 2 39 334 78 78 6 -- 26. Noon. 72 574 - 14 45 * 784 784 *3 55 3 1 5 " 94 r r 3 3 1 ! 14 284 2 38 554 794 784 5 4 2 5 48 19 27 28 20 2 7 t 13 294 2 37 55 i 7 y 4 784 6 s -- 27. Noon. 74 7 13 I*T 794 80 13 3 2 29 4 32 ° 20 37 t i 2 57 t 2 37 24 a 80 79 6 4 2 15 i 3 20| 12 3 i 236 i8z 79 784 6 r -- 28. Noon. 75 1 04 - 11 454 804 80 *3 30 37 22 364 11 Z24 235 50 80 80 6 4 "3 3 19 2 40 14 37 i 10 384 2 34 494 794 794 6 -- - 29. Noon. 76 1 2 4 - IO 20 | 81 81 14 8 54 4 55 5 ° •5 °Aj IO 104 234 84 81 So-j 5
ON BOARD THE RESOLUTION. 253 177 4. Time by Watch K. Apparent Time. Altitude of the ®'sL L. Latitude South. Longitude East by K. The A. rmom. B. 2 O O O cr -*"1 Remarks. H H ' " O / O 0 " £ March 29. 4 40 5 19 21 52 19 204 9 34 232 49L 80 79 6 S -Zv. Noon. 76 47 9 224 80| 804 13 48 32 4 27 21 21 58t 9 21 f 232 4 SO 80 6 5 0 41 >9 33 45- 22 Il 4 9 i84 230 36! 804 80 6 n -31. Noon. 76 284 9 i7s 8of So} 14 8 *5i 4 38 38 19 9i 9 20| 229 55l 804 -04 5 4 33 1 18 58 337 13 3 "t 9 27 228 414 8o7 804 5 ? April 1. Noon. 75 53 9 294 IZ 23 45 3 47 4 31 334 9 3° 228 7 8of 81 5 4 37 24 18 55 56 12 484 9 29 226 5 3 | 80 79 i 5 h -2. Noon. 75 3°l 9 284 81 8 i 4 '3 12 55 3 29 14 35 454 9 29 226 iqf 81 81 4 4 42 -7 18 53 547 12 I 4 f 9 32 225 7 804 804 5 O-3. Noon, 75 4 9 324 8 if 814 *3 12 1 3 21 41 37 2 7 t 9 3 2 i 224 37s 82 8.4 5 4 57 487 ; 9 2 33 14 154 9 324 223 Z 2 \ 814 8 ii 5 5 - 4- Noon. 74 4i 9 32? 82 824 >3 5 i 49 3 54 11 29 3 2 A 9 324 222 454 82 • 824 5 5 20 5i 18 1 14 9 33L 221 424 82 814 5 * -5- Noon. 74 17 9 334 83 83 4 59 0 18 52 22 11 40s 9 21 220 244 82 814 5 8-6. Noon. 74 8 9 195 83 831 14 47 33 4 38 12 18 47 9 3° 219 454 1 5 1 5 6 f 18 51 14 11 i7f 9 3 6 f 219 234 80 774 5 ? - 8. >4 25 Hf 4 12 45 24 38 9 551 218 544 84 824 51 h - 9 Noon. 72 204 9 551 No Dip. 85 At anchor in Refolu- '3 9 5° 2 57 32 42 i8f 9 551 218 554 84 844 5 " tion Bay, in the islanc O - 10 Noon. 7 1 574 9 554 No Dip. "3i 84s Ohitahoo, one of the 12 49 24 2 37 12 46 49 t 9 55 i 218 55 83k 5 1 Marquesas. D - 11. 12 52 11 2 37 544 46 40 A 9 551 218 53 85 8 5i 6J F -- 12. 14 48 I3f 18 514 804 814 6 5 20 !3 19 5 26s 14 4 10 34i 218 114 814 79 5 L - 13- Noon. 69 5 6 i 10 553 834 824 14 37 16 4 21 if 21 514 11 154 217 484 8.3 82^ 5 5 26 4 19 7 52 *4 IZ 4 11 54i 217 184 8 1 1 Si i 5 "U - 14- Noon. 58 51 12 24t 83 82 } ' 14 34 0 4 13 28 23 94 12 40 216 43 83 83 5 5 35 21 19 11 56 14 484 13 20 215 584 814 82s 5 r - 15. Noon. 66 27 *3 4if 83 83 if 2 4 i 3 36 34 31 94 13 53 t 215 174 83 824 5 5 48 56 19 20 26 16 264 -4 174 214 404 824 82 5 *0^ I 1 p Noon. '5 29 14 174 824 831 14 2b o, L 3 54 56 26 42 14 18 214 2 824 8 34 6 6 7 1 19 33 38 19 194 14 284 213 26s 82 814 5 0 - 17. Noon. 64 597 14 26s aoultaafrom N.62 0 W. to 3. 66° W. Off (here abt. 2 m. 1 4 47 ,oi 4 11 28s 22 43i 14 294 212 51 | 1 8 i Off the opening into Taoukaa.
2 54 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS *774- G April 17. D - 18. 6 454 No Dip. 80 8if ? - 27 Noon. 5i 43 r ' 16 454 No Dip. 80 794
ON BOARD THE RESOLUTION, 255 Time by Apparent Altitude Latitude Longitude Thei morn. 3 S -- 1774 . Watch K. Time, O's I. L. South. Kail by K. A. B. 0 Q Remarks. H H ' " 0 0 ° * ar r May 27. '3 43 46-r 2 37 21 35 42 It *6 45s 208 25? 8oi 804 ~6 h 28. Noon. 5 i 33 t 16 454 No dip. 80 80f '3 5 564 1 58 50 4 i 471 "6 45s 208 24 t 4 791 8of 6 0 -- 29. H 53 12 3 45 55 f 22 3 2 t >6 45 l 208 264 81 + 6 D -- 3 °- *5 28 52 4 21 7! *5 * 3 l 204 '6 451 208 244 8 if 82i 5 $ - - 3 1 * 14 38 56 3 3 ° 52 f 25 l6 451 208 244 8 it 804 6 s June 1. 14 *3 25 3 5 2 30 i *4 *6 451 208 244 82 8*4 5 - -- 2. 14 29 53 Z 21 12 27 3t 16 451 208 25 t 82 81 6 ¥ - 3 - 14 *7 37 3 8 37 29 22 16 451 208 2544 "3 8*4 5 - 4 - 14 *9 27 3 8 541 29 i6f 16 424 208 84 8*4 6. Bolabola N. 3 0 £ E. Wefi ^ End of Otaha N. ;8° E. 8 12 3 20 58 304 30 34 t 294 16 44 i 207 27I 8 i 4 824 10 O - 5 * Noon. 50 16 48 8*4 821 14 27 r 3 12 16 28 3 i 16 474 207 2 31 82 83 5 6. 7 >7 54 19 59 52 *9 44 *6 541 206 251 82 814 6 Very hazy. r ■- 1 ' Noon. 50 21 *6 494 17 144 82! 82* Hazy, & bad horizon. F 7 - H 7 *4 2 41 32 33 374 204 404 804 80 2 Very cloudy. 8. 8 " 284 20 34 56 25 3°4 17 3'4 204 14 ? 80 79! 6 S - Noon. 49 26s 17 324 81 804 <5 22 5'4 3 54 28 '9 454 '7 33 204 34 82 82 4 6 52 23 19 21 57s 10 4 8 1 *7 374 203 37 8 3 8 i 4 79 6 -- 9 ' 16 Noon. 49 *5 *7 3 8 4 81 3 *3 4 3 * 32 12 7 *7 394 203 *94 82 81 5 8 53 46 21 19 3 8 ! 33 17 *7 474 202 474 79 764 6 r " 10. 1 6 Noon. 49 1 :: 17 48 7"4 771 Very cloudy. 20 13 4 45 54 9 i 7t *7 494 202 451 784 771 6 Ditto. 7 *3 *7 19 37 25 *3 474 *7 5 i 202 264 784 77 6 h -- 11. Noon. 48 484 *7 551 78 771 *5 43 10 4 4 40 *7 214 18 04 201 494 77 ! 77 6 s -- 12. Noon. 4 8 3 1 18 104 754 75 9 3 * 50 21 4 ° 371 35 4 8 18 46 198 49 764 784 3 v -- * 3 - Noon. 47 5 * i 24 *8 454 771 80 *5 41 33 3 47 42 20 18 464 198 11 78 771 3 Cloudy. 15 46 1 3 51 48 i9 241 18 464 198 51 78 771 6 Ditto. i5 57 57 4 4 1 *7 o~ 18 464 198 7 t 78 771 6 Ditto. 7 18 46 19 21 i6| 10 1 18 404 1 97 *7t 76 754 6 14. 16 Noon. 47 574 204 *8 354 76 751 6 29 4 7 45 16 18 344 197 41 771 761 6 7 11 9 19 12 12 8 104 18 32 197 31 761 754 6 s ■-■ - * 5 - 16 3 Noon. 48 2i 18 274 77 754 5*1 4 9 4 16 84 18 254 196 541 764 754 5 16. 8 3 33 20 1 46s 18 194 18 204 196 28s 764 74 ! 6 56 Noon. 48 *61 18 114 75 ! 75 4 15 7 3 54 5 8 l 9 94 l 7 59 4 196 40. 76 751 3 7 28 59 19 23 20 10 43 ? 18 04 195 364 79 73t 6 ¥ i 7 * Noon. 48 22| 18 24 75 75 3 U
o -a* 256 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS * 774 * ? June 17. - 18. - 19 21 22 23 24 25 o- $ - 27 28 13 22 59 45 1944-720 20-1 14 27 14 27 8 3 l 55 16 22 36 8 28 13 8 45'54 itamsden's Dollond's r -4 59 55 8 54 49420 1 37 14 19 41 o Noon. 3 30 36 17 28 14 19 36 19 53 46 ^ Noon. ^ 7 34 2 8 Noon. j 15 46 46 3 6 17 46 46 4 35 26s 9 Time by Watch K. Apparent lime. Altitude of the §sL.L. Latitude S. 1 Longitude Eait by K. Them A. WM. B. No.ofObf.' H " H " ° ' 0 1 0 15 14 50 3 7 14 28 7 i x8 5 195 9 75 i 74 i 6 -5 25 51 3 18 0 26 87 j 8 5 195 51 751 74 i 6 7 33 58; l 9 21 44 10 * 3 t 18 16 194 31 74 73 i 6 7 50 4 19 3 1 30 12 1 if 18 to dS ♦IH 192 351 75 74 5 Noon. 47 57 i 18 24 A 75 k 77 16 23 46 4 2 57 17 * 5 t 18 2 74 192 4 76 f 76 7 9 54 18 21 28 29s 33 43 t 18 45 190 524 76 7 6 ? 6 Noon. 47 32 18 491 77 77 s 17 5 49 4 37 52 9 564 18 59 190 224 76s 7 bi 10 8 17 24 *9 48 x 3 15 x6f 18 55 190 H 75 k 76 51 9 7 35 20 38 11 24 52-5- 18 54 l 190 sf 77 781 8', 11 7 3 ° 22 37 28 42 534 18 55 t 189 554 78 78 6 I Ramsden Dollond' 'SQ: S Qi | Noon. | 47 47 24A 24 tV 18 18 564 \ 57 t : CO 78 J 14 47 3 1 2 17 17 35 43 i i 9 14 189 54 i 78 i\ 16 5 4 3 34 48 22 24-rV 19 2 189 54 79 s 6 J 8 14 28 19 41 49 s 13 46 19 20 189 224 77 76 6 Noon. 46 581 19 23s 189 7^t 77 " 16 41 23 4 7 28 15 5 l k 19 27s 5 k 78? 77 k 6 8 6 50 19 28 43 IO 554 19 43 188 6f 77 i 7 6 s 6 Noon. 46 32s 19 49 t 187 78 77 l 16 37 41 3 57 i 4 l 17 3344 19 57 i 33 k 77 k 77 k 6 8 12 43 19 27 13 10 174 20 24L 186 22 78 76? 6 Noon. 45 58 ! 20 24 i 185 79 79 17 xo 37 * 4 22 421 12 214 20 l 9 f 48s 79 s 78! 3 8 43 45 19 54 2 x 5 43 tV I 20 12 185 244 77 I78 5 Remarks. 7 Off Savage Island. 40 40 13 46 22 12 4 i 4 5 34 2-A 297 104 314 12 13 164 21 5 "5f 1 5 i 534 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 22 264 23s "5i "5 15 15L 14I 15 15 15 i 4 l 15 S. by one of the Friend- xo 7 Ramiden's Quadrant. 5 Dollond's Quadrant. 184 59 ? I 76 ?l 744 l 6, ly Islands.
ON BOARD THE RESOLUTION 257 1774- Time by Watch K. Apparent Time. Altitude of the 0 's L. L. Latitude S Longitude East by K. The A. rmom. B. No. of Obf. Remarks. H ' " H ' " V ' 0 ' June 28. Captain Cook and Mr. Cooper being both on shore at noon , and not coming off till late, I could not wind up the watch at the usual time ; and being engaged in the evening, when they did come on board, making computations, & c. unfortu- nately forgot it until it was down. I wound it up as soon as I recollected it, set it a going, and soon after made the following observations : 6 3 6 29 (19 54 4lli5 49^ J20 i 5 1 175 174- r l 6 I At Annamocka. Hence it appears, that the watch was 2 h. 10' 38"* slower than before. 7 22 17 I20 39 58 |24 31s ho 15 I 175117541 6 | At Annamocka. 1 By these the watch was 2 h. 10' 43''! slower than before. The mean of both is 2 h, 10 ' 41" 8 - 29 . Noon. 46 27! 20 054 76 744 14 21 74 3 Z 8 24 21 9f 20 10 184 554 76 764 5 7 11 57 2 2 364 *9 594 75 4 75 2 n - 30. Noon. 46 444 *9 5*4 75i 754 7 45 5*4 20 57 18 27 54 A *9 53 '83 384 744 75 6 ? July I. Noon. 46 46 *9 54i 74 75 *4 5 8 3 s 4 8 24 *5 3844 *9 57 183* 94 734 73? 6 7 23 5*4- 20 28 294 22 38s 20 04 182 24 75 72 6 7 29 28 20 33 56 23 384 20 04 *81 594 75 72 10 h - 2. Noon. 46 4* 20 3i 72 72 16 2 54 4 84 20 0 72 724 5 6 54 19 19 56 58 *6 45 *9 45 i *81 344 734 72 6 7 1 39 20 4 2 *8 94 •9 45 181 342 734 72 6 O 3 ■ Noon. 47 *4 *9 47 734 74 *5 n 39 4 13 304 14 404 19 48 181 28s 74 725 6 6 48 IOx 19 48 38 *5 3 *9 584 181 11 74 744 6 7 ii 2 20 11 23 19 29s 19 584 181 9! 75x 75 4 6 7 l6 ZQ 20 16 5 6 20 354 *9 584 *8* 54 75"a 754 6 8 31 36 21 31 32 33 4o44 20 0 i8i 34 76 754 6 D-4. Noon. 46 2 264 4 11 27 *4 57 20 9 *80 51! 75 i 76* 6 6 38 584 *9 35 6 12 4 f 20 344 180 114 78 75 6 6 46 46 19 42 49 1 3 3 6 4 20 314 180 104 78 75 6 §-5- ' Noon. 46 204 20 384 76 754 8 48 25 ' 21 38 51 34 15 20 53 178 52| 76 76 6 Cloudy. 8-6- Noon. 46 9 20 55-r 76 764 *5 53 44 4 42 12 8 284 20 554 178 244 76 761 6 7 12 5 *9 59 *5 *6 454 20 534 *78 84 76 75 8 Very cloudy. n -7. Noon. 46 204 20 50s 764 77 15 22 42 4 7 12 *5 354 20 48s *77 3°4 , 77t 77? 6 6 5 8 35 19 41 50 13 264 2.0 474 *77 *54 76 75 6 Cloudy. ?-8. Noon. 46 354 20 414 771 78 j 6 52 6 19 29 16 11 124 20 20 *75 49? 78 77 h-9 Noon. 17 °4 20 234 78 78 O-10. Noon. *7 384 *9 53i 744 744 14 47 274 3 20 34 25 24-4 *9 43 *74 474 74i 74 6 Cloudy, and bad horizon.
O -T 1 to Jfi tot o* O 258 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS r s v r 0 > *774 Time by Watch K. Apparent Time. Altitude of the 0's L. L. Latitude South. Longitude East by K. Then A. nom. B. 2 O O 0 Remarks. H ' " H ' " 0 ' O 0 ' cr July iO~. 6 59 4 i 19 31 36 12 324 18 49 t *74 4 °i 73 t 73 ~6 Cloudy. --- II. Noon. 49 l 3 18 264 74 74 '5 28 9 3 57 49 *9 104 18 9 *74 84 75 75 6 7 3 3 19 31 28 '3 84 *7 38 *73 53 * 75 74 * 7 12. Noon. 50 27 l 7 204 76 76 Cloudy, 15 46 43 4 *2 57 16 384 *7 7 *73 22-4 7^5- 754 6 7 2 8 *9 27 1-4 12 45 16 364 *73 5 754 75 t 6 - *3 15 28 8i 3 5* 26 21 3*7 16 184 172 424 76 6 6 52 294 19 13 36 10 1 84 1 5 49 172 * 3 t 754 6 -- - *4 Noon. 52 254 15 39 * 774 78 *5 *5 43 3 35 3 i 25 19s '5 324 171 484 78 774 6 7 12 21 19 29 8 *3 577 *5 *34 * 7 * * 3 * 771 76s 6 - * 5 - Noon. 53 4 i *5 9 * 78 * 794 15 21 *34 3 34 53 25 37 -s *5 94 170 274 80 79 6 15 26 55 3 40 30 24 294 *5 9 t 170 264 80 79 6 9 25 43 21 33 24 38 33 i *5 5 t 169 ** 78* 794 3 -- 16. Noon. 53 184 15 5 78* 79 * - * 7 * 18. 11 6 12 l6 52* 28i 5 1 53 324 257 l 5 *5 3 i 2| 78 784 761 7 6 * 7 6 * 4 * 8 K N. by E. | E. at tst. Obs. and N. 65° W. ai 'rd. Ship's course 8. io° W. 51 miles an hour. 14 42 10 35 54 t 167 78 * 8 14 42 10 2 42 27s 35 54 * *5 * 4 * 20} 78 * 76* 8" *5 56 27 3 56 52s 21 * 7 t *5 *94 167 22| 78 76s 5 Cloudy. - 19. *5 58 Noon. 53 4 *i : *5 *24 76$ 76s 45 3 59 49 - 20 47 -A *5 *74 167 3 6f 77 76* 3 16 1 48s 4 2 53s 20 74 -5 *74 167 364 3 20. Noon. | 53 364 *5 284 744 75 Ramsden's Quad. *6 35 53 36 *5 29* J Dollond's Quad. 35 4 36 32s 12 544 "5 39 *67 37 * 75 75 7 7 5 1 33 i *9 52 19 18 5*4 16 64 167 38 75 74 * 6 N.E. point of AmbrimN.88°E. ' S. point of Whitfun* N" 57°E. -- 21. Noon. | 52 52 59 584 16 16 *74 *74 ! 76 774 Ramsden's Quad. Dollond's Quad. 9 4i 3*f 21 40 54f 39 384 16 254 167 2*4 74 764 744 6- I In Sandwich's Har- .■ . 1 . 22. Noon. 53 3 16 2 St 76 2 . hour, in Maliico- 8 8 *3t 20 7 24 22 It 16 254 167 2l! 77 77 6 1 la. 23 Noon. 53 *54 16 244 79 80 Off Sandwich Harbour. 16 5 12 4 4 44 *9 3444 16 21 167 254 794 78* 6' ' S. point of Ambrim N. zo* E. I Mafltelyne** Istcs, 8. i6^W, 24. 8 4 *74 20 6 if 21 35t *7 64 168 64 78 77 * 6 ■ Monument S. 15 0 W. 1 Three-hills West. 9 38 49 21 40 9 39 2 z 4 *7 *** 168 oz 78 * 77 * 6 ' Three-hills N. 50" W. 1 Shepherd's Isles N. 30°E. - 25. Noon. 52 47 * *7 184 79 80s 2 ^ Monument N. 6° E. 1 Montagu Isle S. 61 0 W. 16 8 52 4 10 18 18 64 *7 23 168 3 80 79 5 ; 1 E. end of Montagu S. 69" w. Monument N. 11° W. '
ON BOARD THE RESOLUTION. *59 1774 Time by Watch K. Apparent Time. Altitude of the ®'sL. L. Latitude S. Longitude Ealt by K. The A. B. •3 O O O Remarks. H ' " H ' " 0 0 0 * cr Ju'y 25. 7 29 214 19 29 44 '3 57 * 17 2 if 167 49f 79 7 S| 6 1 Monument N. 48° £. ' E" point of Montagu S.49°E. $ 26. 11 iZ 43 5 1 41 12 52 43 36* ; 37 ■ 30* ■ Ship's co 1 S. if miles N. 4 7 °fW rse anh at2c £. i . 0 obs. 3 5 Between Hinch- • ingbroke andMon- tagu Islands. 16 28 52 4 30 20 i 3 53 t 17 33 168 80 81 6' Sandwich Island from 8. 36* W, to8. 23° E 7 38 41 19 41 48T 16 2 2-f *7 524 168 33 i 744 74 6- ' S.end ofSandwich S 8o°W. ^ Traitor's Head S, 240 E. Z - 27. Noon. 52 3 r 18 oi 74 734 • Erramanga from S. to 8. 17° E. 16 iZ 55 4 18 13.4 16 I 7 rV 18 9r 168 524 744 744 "i Erramanga S. i° E. to 8. zo° W. 8 22 20 20 47 44 25 38 * 18 254 169 IO| 72 72 * 6 1 Erramanga from S. 26° W. to 8. 6r° W. % -- 28. Noon. 52 20i- 18 244 71* 7 i* J Traitor'sHeadS.38*W. 16 Zi 16 4 36 28 12 24 * 18 24 169 81 73 75 6 Traitor'sHeadS.zg'W. 7 37 38 19 43 29 l6 40 18 27 169 20 72 704 8 ] Traitor , sHeadS.5i"W. 7 45 28 19 41 20 l8 19 18 2 7 169 20* 72 70* 8 j ? - ; - 29. Noon. 52 29 18 30* 73 74 T raitor'sHeadS.61° W. 16 28 23 4 33 52 13 O 18 3 4 * 169 154 73 724 6 Traitor'sHeadS. j6*W. 8 53 64 20 57 22 13 36 18 32* 168 58 * 71* 7 o 4 3 T raitor'sHeadS.41 * W. T? 3 °- Noon. 52 40 * 18 33 * 724 724 16 27 194 4 32 of 13 314 18 3 ° 169 54 75 764 6 7 7 40 46 48 45 19 44 38 19 50 414 17 ,8 i°4 267 18 18 23 23 168 168 544 56* 74 74 734 734 6" 3 Traitor's Head S. - 1 2 0 W. dislant 7 9 59 56 22 20 20 3 104 22 0 20 21 42 46s 18 18 23 22 168 168 53 54 * 74 74 734 76 8 6 about 7 leagues. O - Zi- Noon. 53 74 18 21 75 81 16 46 55 4 5 ° 37 - 9 4°tV 18 24 168 53 * 75 744 6 8 37 10 20 39 48 28 324 18 244 168 384 74 754 8 8 42 55 20 45 24 29 394 18 24 T 168 354 74 754 8 " Aug. 1. Noon. 53 1 °i 18 32* 74 73 * 1 Erramanga from 8. 12° W. to 8. 57° E. 16 23 42 4 25 Z 4 14 5 s i 18 464 168 28 75 764 r f Erramanga from N. S Q 0 I E. to 8 12" E. 8 5 i 25 v 20 52 52 3 i 3 18 45 * 168 234 75 76 8 1 8 58 4 ro 59 30s 32 194 18 45* 168 234 75 76 8 'Off Traitot's Head. $ - 2 Noon. 53 12* 18 46s 78 78 * J 16 47 46 4 49 3 ° 9 58 tt 18 44 168 28 80 73 6 l Erramanga from N. 36? E. to 8. 12 0 E. 8 8 42 5 * 28 40 20 45 364 20 54 36f 29 3 i 52 36 | 18 18 38 38 168 168 48 474 75 75 73 73 •} Traitor's Head 8. 16' VV. and the land from S.8o° W.toS. i6°E. s - 3 Noon. 53 37 * 18 36 * 76* 74 Erramanga from S. jri' W. toS. i8°E. J 5 49 58 3 52 37 * 22 io 4 18 4 i 168 434 78 74i 6 I 3 X
26 o ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS 1774 - L Aug. 3 U - 4 V - 6 . 20 21 . D-22 Time by Watch K. Apparent Time. H " 8 xo 35 8 18 io 15 20 4 H 20 12 55 t i 20 20 32 Noon. 3 22 584 774 19 10 31 10 IO 304-j 11 44 20 Altitude of the ©'• L. L. 23 24 53 28 24-rV 57 'f 46; 18 Latitude S, Longitude East by K. 9 57 t 18 18 18 434 43 ? 43 ? 18 444 19 264 45 4 f, 19 53 2i44! y 324 l68 40 a 168 40L 168 484 168 5Si: Thermom. A. 75 75, 76s 7 8 i 75 73? 73 B. 74 ? 74 ? 78 774 73 i 73 74 ? Remarks. ^]At anchor in the 6 j" Bay N. of Traitor's j Head. 5 ! East endofTannaS. 18^E> t Traitor's Head N. 70° W 5 J Off the entrance into For I Resolution. 5 3 In Port Resolution. I carried the Watch on shore at Port Resolution, in the island of Tanna, and noted the times of equal altitudes of the fun by it every day the weather would permit until the 19th (fee p, 97). From these observations it appeared that the Watch was now gaining 13",93 8 a day on mean time, and this rate being 2'', 105 different from that which had been allowed, would, it is plain, cause a very considerable error in the situation of Aurora and the lands we first fell in with, as the relative situations of the several points had been determined by it. To avoid this, I computed the situations of the strip every day at noon, from our making Aurora to arriving at this place-, and from thence corrected those of the several points of land which had before been settled by the Watch, according to the rate it was now going at, and on supposition that the longitude of Port Resolution is 168° 58' 8"f, which is what the Watch gave it at its Point Venus rate: And as I computed the situations of the ship, and all lands seen after leaving Port Resolution on the fame suppositions, it is obvious that I had only to determine the absolute error of the Watch at that place, and the true situations of all the other points would follow. This error I found to be o° 42' 57" too little, by a mean of 85 sets of observations of the moon's distance from the fun and stars; each set being the mean of from three to twelve single observations: And, in order to try whether the Watch had kept pretty near this rate all the time we were amongst these lands, I compared it with a mean of 32 sets of observations at Port Sandwich, with a mean of 48 sets at Pudyoua, or Observatory Isle, where I observed the solar eclipse, and with 48 more at Botany Island; and its error at none of these places differed quite 3' from the above. On the 19th, in the morning, we left Port Resolution. 6 I Irraname S. 45° E. C Irraname N. 74° E, I Enatum S. 12 ° E. 6> t Erramanga from S. O ? 592 £. t 0 JsJ. 760 F. j Traitor's Head 8. 66° E. r \ Sandwicblslandfrom °l N. 32 °E.toN. 55 °W. 7 26 10 19 30 58-i- 16 274 19 244 169 32 T I 1 1 2 7 i? Noon. 5 8 3 19 334 72 73 \ 17 1 28s; 5 3 35 8 44I l 9 391 168 524 72 7 19 19 19 18 44 14 74 18 38 168 us 7 °i 7 C ? Noon. 59 3 s ? 18 184 72s 754 -6 2 84 408 2 3 3 1 '? 18 if l6 7 5°4 73? 74
ON BOARD THE RESOLUTION 261 Time by Apparent Altitude Latitude Longitude Ther morn. 3 O I 774 * Watch K. Time. O's L. L South. East by K. A. B. O n Remarks- H ' " H ' " 0 / O / 0 ' cr D Aug. 2 2. 8 0 5 8| >9 55 34 i 23 7 ? 16 46 166 584 6 7 Mallicolafrom N. 36° 870 20 1 40 24 284 16 464 167 14 6 J E. to N. 35° W. $ - 23. Noon. 6i 53 t 16 23s >66 434 74 i 73i J Mallicola from S. 35° r E. to N. 430 w. 7 25 32 19 19 4 15 i;i 15 477 76I 76! 4 1 Cloudy. 8 53 5 1 ! 20 47 42 35 9A 15 4 °i 166 471 784 6 ? Off Tiera del Espiritu S-24. 16 49 32 Noon. 63 i4i 15 234 77 t 81 J Sancto. 4 43 6 15 It 15 74 i66 424 79 8o| 6 | CapeQuirosN.50°W. 9 27 32 21 20 7 42 304 i 4 54 f 166 28 794 6 5 Cape Quiros East. t C. Cumberland N. 66° W. % 25. Noon. 64 2t 14 554 79? 8 14- t Cape Quiros N. 8 6'E. { C. Cumberland N. 58° W. 14 16 31 2 8 44 4 8 §14 14 534 i66 221 81 6 s Cape QuirosN. 8 i°E. t C. Cumberland N. 52° W. 7 52 49 19 44 54f 21 39t 15 64 166 20s 77! 76? 6 j Cape Quiros N. 48° ?-26. 7 56 3 8 19 48 56 22 34t 15 64 166 234 77! 76? 4 S W. 16 32 54 Noon. 4 25 2 64 13-I- 19 234 15 5 '5 10 166 20f 7 8 f 81 804 6 1 In the bottom of the 5 Bay of Philip&James. 7 25 12 19 16 52 15 2444 14 45 166 124 7 6 4 744 10 1 CapeQuirosS.68°4E. 7 30 3 19 21 44 16 324 14 45 166 124 764 74! 4 J C. Cumberland N. 60® VV. h -27. 15 8 22 Noon. 2 59 3 8 l 65 ot i4 39? l66 64 77! r C. Quiros S. 68 "4 E. / C. Cumberland S. 88° W. 3 8 541 i4 37 7 8 794 6 I Ditto S. 26° W. 7 43 11 r 9 33 3 *t iq 224 '4 47 t 165 52? 774 7 8 4 6 | Ditto N. 40° E. O-28. 7 49 39 19 39 5 8 f 20 52 14 47s 165 52 774 7 8 4 6 Noon. 65 104 '4 5 °t 7 8 ! ;S 4 I Ditto, N. 26" E. i7 3 32 4 54 iZi 12 5 8 -V 14 4 8 4 165 584 80 82 J 6 ! Ditto, N. 26° E. 7 50 37 19 40 451 2i 74 14 5 74 165 5 °r 8oj 78 8 7 56 58-J 19 47 M! 22 374 14 574 165 504 8o| 7 8 8 j Ditto, N. 16° E. 2>-29. 7 35 6 Noon. 65 23-4 >4 5 8 4 165 431 79-1 80 ! Ditto, N. 19 0 E. '9 24 54f 17 27-4 15 2 44 78 78 6 6 co I I *0 Noon. 65 23L 15 19^ 166 6| 79 79 Off the West side of '5 0 5 1 2 52 x 4i 42 4 H 15 214 7*1 79 6 Quiros' Tiera del '7 5 3 8 s 4 56 29s 12 314 15 234 165 574 7 8 4 79 6 Elpiritu Sandlo. 7 5 8 35 19 49 42j 23 > 24 ' 15 434 166 24 764 76 6 S - 3 1 * Noon. 65 20-4 1 5 45 774 77 s Cape Lisliurne N. 52° E. ( Bartholomew Hie N. 70°E. >5 19 59 3 12 i 5 i 36 204 15 424 166 184 79 6 ■ Cape Listrurne N. 31® W. Bartholomew Isle N. 79® E. : 9 9 57 20 59 10 3 8 394 16 26 165 324 744 75 8 it Sept. 1. 9 52 17 11 4 " 36 47 3°4 16 274 >65 33 ? 6 Noon. 64 534 16 33 t 7 s 76 75 7 13 42 1 8 59 54 i 11 28,4 17 46 164 46-- 744 - 744 6 ?- 2. 16 44 29 Noon. 5 z 42i 18 6 i 751- 764 4 3 ° 6 | 18 i 6 t 4 >8 21 164 37 75! 76 6 9 026 20 44 20 34 44.8 . t 9 04 164 104 744 7i? 5: Very cloudy. . *
o* 262 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS 1774- h Sept. % J? H 4 x6 12 13I 7 27 2Zi 15 43 48 8 38 49! 12, 14, See pages 101 to 104 for Observations made on board the/hip, at anchor, offPudyoua. 6 | PudyouaIsleS.2i p W. 8~1 10 15 16. 1 7 18. *9 20. 21 . 22 Time by Watch K. Apparent Time. H 3 56 x 19 10 50 Noon. 3 27 14! Noon. Altitude of the Q's L. L. Latitude S. 25 5 J 4 13 4-64 62 Z 34 32 x 4 29 484 62 382 .62 39! -9 19 *9 X2J 5 ° 594 20 5 t 20 20 16 Longitude Eait by K. 164 164 164 H 24 nX. * S 74 73 Thermom. A. B. 74 73 744174- 744747 75! 74 Remarks. 5 Cape Colenet S. 41 0 E. 4 ( N. Point ofBaladeS. 68 ° W. 10 Very cloudy. Dollond's Quadrant. Ramsden's ditto. i 5 l 5 16 16 7 1 5 15 15 7 23 ' 16 7 7 9 26 14s 22 9 48 53 4 l 4 20 2 163 504 75 764 xg r 3 2 55 34 ! 40 404 ! 80 83 25 37 3 7 36 38 364 *9 18 163 224 80 83 3 ° 48 3 12 46 37 2 74 1 9 18 163 22| 80 83 23 4 -9 7 3 2 Off New Caledonia. r The Point above Cape (Colenet S. 89 ~ p W. ,-tThe above Point N. 0 t 83" W. 61 rNew Caledonia from (N. 88° W. toS. 36°E. 6 I , r Charlotte's Fore- 0 (land S. 28° E. Ditto, S. 25 0 E. Ditto, S. 23° E.
ON BOARD THE RESOLUTION. 263 Time by Apparent Altitude Longitude Thcr rnom. z 0 1774 Watch K. Time. G' L. L. Ea!l by K, A. B. 0 "•'I 0 Remarks. H H ' " O 0 ' • r ? Sept. 23. 16 3 2 of 3 58 40 27 47 22 of 166 28s 74 73 i 6 5 (^Charlotte's Foreland S.4 1 - IE. & C.Coronation L.;L°W 7 50 25 19 47 0 24 39 21 57 t l66 46s 72 * 72 6, h - 24. Noon. 68 i 3 21 59t 744 73 J Charlotte's Forehand S. 26° W. H 5 i 5 ° 2 48 21 43 33 * 22 4 166 40s 73 t 74 6 7 9 56 19 6 7 15 24s 22 8 166 38s 73 7 i 4 5 O - 25. Noon. 68 25s 22 iof 741 734 S C. Coronation N. 78° W. & Q^Char. Foreland S. 3 7 0 W . 16 9 38 4 5 38 26 2 7 A 22 20 r66 34i 75 74f 6 26. 7 rg 531 19 10 i8§ 16 3 1 * 22 9f 166 40 s 73 72 3 " - Noon. 68 43- 22 16 734 734 Isle of Pines S. i g°4 E 16 22 57 4 20 32 23 14 22 20f 166 57 t 76 734 6! Cape Coronation N. 76P W. Ille of Pines S. i 9 E, 8 59 19s 20 57 32 40 48s 22 34i 167 5* 72 69 4 $ - 27. Noon. 68 5 - 3 8 Noon. 9 Z8f 24 4* 7 o| 684 6 *5 41 3 50 38s 30 48s 24 i9r 169 47 7 o* 68z 6 t> 42 32 18 54 2 '3 52s 25 us I/O 161 68 66 6 & - - 4- Noon. 68 374 25 28 68f 6 9a 15 5° 59 4 4 10 27 3 6 4 25 42 s > 7 ° 41 69 69 5 * 6 43 55 18 57 24 14 44f 26 33 r 170 44 t 66 64! 6 s 5* Noon. 67 36| 26 53 67* 044 *5 49 49 4 3 48 2 7 44 t 27 13 170 £2| 982 654 6 6. 6 50 26 19 4 50s x 6 30 27 53 i/O 5"f 65 62 6 Noon. 67 of 27 52 o6f 6 5
264 astronomical observations 1 774 * Time by Watch K. Apparent Time. Altitude of the O's L. L. Latitude S. Longitude East bv K.. Therr A. no m, B. 2 O 2. O cr Remarks. H H ' " 0 0 ' 0 ' n Oct. 6. 16 0 34 4 15 0 25 22 r 27 5 2 170 58 69 687 6 6 47 57 i 19 2 5* 16 H 27 524 170 524 66 63 6 ? - 7 - Noon. 67 23 27 52 ? 70 7 * 7 2 ! 3 i 19 12 454 18 344 28 1 7 170 It 66 64-r 5 h -- 8. Noon. 67 * 3 r 28 244 68 65? 16 2 55 4 II 34 r 26 24 28 327 169 3° 694 644 6 8 5 ° 19 -20 56 10-7 40 54 t 28 5 it l68 474 65 6 o -- 9 - Noon. 67 64 28 544 68 6 4i i4 42 50 2 47 5 44 224 28 55 168 2 3s 69 62-7 6 14 49 26 2 53 4i 42 55f 28 55 168 254 6 9 627- b 15 16 154 3 2° 31 37 27 28 55 168 23I 69 62-L 6 16 49 284 4 53 12 i7 2 8| 28 56 168 154 69 62* 5 6 52 59 18 53 12 H 38 28 53 167 224 657 6i4 6 Norfolk IslandS. 5l°E- 9 46 24 21 46 48 51 i6| 28 544 167 2 54 66 62 6 Ditto, S. 17° w. J - IO.* Dollond' RamsJen s Qu. '" Qi Noon. | 67 67 2.67 27 28 28 58 : 57i 66 f 634 Ditto, S. 12° E. i6 30 18 4 3° 28 22 364 29 0 167 214 8 .6 44 25 4 44 3 8 4 19 3'4 29 0 167 22f 5 Ditto, S. 11° W. 7 18 8 19 18 464 20 23 29 5t 167 284 654 65 6 Ditto, N. 64° w. $ - 11. Noon. 67 26 29 2lf 69I 66i- Ditto, N. 4° w. 14 51 34 2 51 4 43 484 29 29 167 "t 697 644 6 14 59 2 2 58 42 42 144 29 29 167 141 694 644 8 7 5 46 19 4 224 1 7 23 L 30 35i 166 574 66 634 6 S - - 12. Noon. 66 8i 31 17 69! 66* >5 25 54 3 24 5 8 3-6 26-^- 31 i7t 167 44 7°i 651 8 16 55 55 4 55 4 •7 384 31 254 167 54 704 65 £ 7 18 5 1 1919 11 20 363 32 394 167 23! 654 62 6 V -.- * 3 ■ 46 Noon. 64 374 32 54 t 167 68? 651 6 1 5 15 3 48 2 3* 34 33 4 t 454 70 63 J 5 5 2 37 3 54 36 30 144 33 44 167 48s 70 63 6 7 14 18 19 18 32 20 354 33 43 168 22f 66 6i| 6 ? - 14- Noon. 63 5*4 34 2f 169 671 65L 16 23 4i 4 3° 28 22 52 - 1-4 34 20| O 707 624 6 16 3 i 26 4 3 8 *4i 2 I 17° 34 21 169 07 704 624. 6 16 36 14 4 43 10 20 164 34 2 I 169 2-z- 704 624 6 6 59 i 5 19 9 6i 18 454 35 84 169 464 65 5o 6 ' E - 5 - Noon. 62 45 35 32 677? 654 7 1 5 34 19 32 Z7k 2 3 3'4 37 94 171 344 64 604- 6 : O -- 16 Noon. 61 4t 37 344 66-^ 634. Very cloudy. 55 10 41 1 oN . W. ar 26 obs. 11 13 PO 54 52 424 -37 34 > Ship's course S. E. cl- miles an hour. 6 6 6 56 21 19 18 24 20 47 38 574 172 494 62^ 58 5 C.EgmontS.i7°E. 9 37 57 22 O 274 49 3*4r 39 I2t 172 57 6 Ditto, s. 72° E- v >7- Noon. 59 37- 39 24 6 4 | 59 Ditto, N. 33 3 E.
ON BOARD THE RESOLUTION. 265 Time by Apparent Altitude Latitude Longitude Ther morn. 2 O Watch K. Time. G'5 L.L. South. East by K. A. B. O Q Remarks. H ' " H ' " 0 ' 0 0 CT r774- r Oct. 17 3 -18 These bearings of Cape Egmont are a little doubtful, as we could not be absolutely certain of the Cape Point, on account of the fog over the land. '5 2 5 | 3 25 26 {25 11 139 49 | 173 9s |6 4 i|59f| 6|In Cook'sStraits. We got safe moored, the third time, in Queen Charlotte's Sound, New Zealand; and I got my Observatory and Instruments up on the 19th, but, on account of the bad weather, did not get equal altitudes of the Sun before the rrd, on which, and all future days, until November 5th, I compared the Watch with the Clock (fee p. 112.). Hence it appeared, that the Watch was then gaining 12",576 a day on mean time, and that it was irh. 9' 38",86 too stow for mean time, at Queen Charlotte's Sound, on H October 2 2d, at noon. The Watch therefore places the Sound, this time, 173 0 4 T 28^4 East of Greenwich ; that is, it makes the difference of Longitude between this place and Point Venus, in Ocaheite, 36° 43' 42''?. I have here supposed the Watch to go at its Point Venus rate till August 7th, and after that time at its Tanna rate. If we allow the rate it went at, when at Greenwich, before the voyage, all the way from England, it will make the Sound 14 y a 34' 26"! East of Drake's Island, or 143° 18' 19'" East of Greenwich. Lastly, if it be luppofed to have gone at the rate it went at when here last time, (viz. gaining 9" 091 a day on mean time) it ought to have been too slow for mean time, on h November 5th, 1774, by 12 h. 26' 14",2; but as it was only 12 h. 6' 43" too slow at that time, it will appear to have erred from itself 19' 31". 2 = 4° 52' 48 "4 of longitude in one year all but a day. The following longitudes of the strip are computed on supposition that the Watch gains 12^,576 a day on mean time, that it was 12 h. 6' 43" too slow for mean time, at Queen Charlotte's Sound, on T? November 5th, at noon, and that the true longitude of the Sound is 174 0 25^, which is what the mean of all my Observations make it. U Nov. 10. 6 34 57 l8 59 12 22 Hi 42 1 8-4 *75 10 63 58 5 ? - - 1 1 . Noon. 64 5*4- : 42 214 6+4 60 i4 18 K 2 43 13 47 944 42 22 u i75 24 56 62 C 14 2 3 31 2 48 5i4 46 124 42 22f 175 27-r 66 62 7 iZ 33 40 ■s 58 53 33 42 i 42 224 175 264 67 6 2f 5 6 34 1 18 59 9 i 22 26 \ 42 54i 1 75 284 624 58 6 h - 1 1 . Noon. 64 16s 43 134 644 614 '5 45 3 4 12 42 3 1 I4x 43 27 176 7 1 6§4 64 e 15 50 35 4 18 2;6L 3° I 3 TO 43 27 176 11 054 64 6 6 24 17 18 55 O 21 /)64 44 7 176 58 624 54? 6 v 14. 6 28 42 >9 *3 44 25 4 0 47 33 180 43 55? 49? 6 3 if- 9 11 32 55 4i 45 54 59 24 ' I2|- ( 47 49 * < "Ship's course S. E. by E. 4 miles an hour. J51 ,52 5 4 17 24 354 6 13 38 11 21 4 48 10 181 45 4 58 52 t 6 8 12 i9 1 28 23 484 49 12 182 5 2 i" 53 474 6 S --- 16. Noon. 58 584 49 334- 53 5o 16 58 i4 5 56 4 14 454- 49 534 184 64 r t-j 3 o 7 T 52 6
2 $6 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS 1 774* Time by Watch K. Apparent Time. Altitude of the 0 'sL L. Latitude South. Longitude East by K. Them A . do m. B. Z 0 0 C" Remarks. H " H ' " 0 0 I 0 V Nov. l? 15 15 6 4 22 34I 29 4° 3 5 1 334 186 33 i 55f 5 1 6 5 3 6 22 18 51 16 22 40 52 3 l * l88 2Sf 5°; 474 6 r - - 18. Noon. 56 ifc'f 52 44t 54 5of h - 19. Noon. 55 34; : 53 41s 55 49 D 2 1 6 59 28 21 IO 9* 42 10 J- 55 464 202 374 5of 44 6 t -,- 22. Noon. 54 71 55 487 52 44; Foggy. 6 54 22 21 11 461 42 35 55 4 2 4 204 4i 5 1 43 4 6 8 -- 2 A- Noon. 54 26 55 424 58 52 444 i3 20 39 3 39 4 36 8 55 42s 204 56 484 5 6 40 34 21 6 34 42 I2f 55 33 206 564 5i 44 6 % - 24- Noon. 54 48 i 55 3 27 18s 52 46 6 30 13 21 13 8 43 20f 55 137 211 5°i 43 6 ? - 2Z- Noon. 55 2 3t 55 97 46s 52 45f 12 57 19 3 4Z 58 35 4 ! t 55 74 212 54* 43t 6 Tj - 26. Noon. 55 37L 55 64 5 of 43f O 27• Noon. 55 52 :: 55 3 5i 444 iZ 1.7 59 r 4 49 5 27 &T 55 2f 223 39 52s 434 b 8 3°- Noon. 55 5 4 i 55 3*4 54f 47 f 6 Very hazy, and a high sea. n Dec. 1. 2 2 33 21 644 55 124 237 if 5°; 44 oN •13° E. at ist ? 2. 6 8 40 11 18 2 55 56 54 i5i 54 534 Obscrvat. Ship's course N. E. 5 ■i | Very foggy. miles an hour. Tl > 3- Noon. 57 534 54 of 524 45 2 3 8 17 19 15 28 28 3 8 A 53 21 241 24 49 40s 6 O 4- Noon. 58 47i 53 I5l 56s 4if 11 20 42 4 2 Z8z 34 5 it 53 i5t 242 27s 58 4if 6 2 29 53 19 19 5 8 29 2 4 t 53 9f 244 3°t 5°l 4-4 5 3 5° 46 z 20 42 22 41 29s 53 9 244 S3 \ 52f 41s 5 I 5 Noon. 59 2? 53 74 56 434 11 21 24 32 44 1 53 64 246 I2f 58s 6 i 6. Noon. 59 7i 53 10s 56s 43 11 58 221 H 55 4 53 12s 604 43 6 2 13 9§ 19 32 37I 3 1 *9i 53 174 252 Vl 48 s 434 6 L 7 Noon. 59 !7 53 19s 52 464 Cloudy. ! O 4 26 3 27 48 40 i 3t 53 20 t 253 114 00 A 48 6 IO 7 59 3 3 s 33i 39 4 1 ; 53 204- 2 53 i4t 604 48 2 Very cloudy. 11 23 37 4 47 34; 28 3 °4 53 204 253 204 61 50 £ 2 5 1 11 20 20 57 38 374 53 29 254 547 531- 444 £ U 8 Noon. | 49 58 of 594 53 53 3°i 3if 62 47 3 amfden's Quad. Ooliond's. S 9 Noon. 59 ot 53 37t 258 6zf 471 j 2 3 30 29 45 54 33 374 53 5°f 234 53i 444 1 7 loudy, and a bad horlzor, h - 10 0 26 5.9i ■ 4 15 5 6 33 234 53 464 1 260 44 59 444 £ Q - 11 IO 4 23 4 11 26 34 Qt'o* 53 29 264 461 60 44s £ 2 5° 50 21 8 17: 45 264 53 26i 267 294 53-i 444 C .. loudy.
ON BOARD THE RESOLUTION. 267 Time by Apparent Altitude Latitude Longitude Then morn. 2 p 1 774* Watch K. Time. O'sL.L. South. East by K. A. 8. O -n Q Remarks. H H ' " O 0 0 ' cr r Dec. i2. Noon. 59 284 53 24t 6x4 444 8 43 40 3 5 St 43 46 53 22t 268 3*4 644 47 8 8 52 484 3 i4 32 42 27s 53 2 2f 2L8 3 6 i 644 47 8 10 *7 12 4 39 i4t 30 6i 53 22f 268 4i4 684 464 6 2 -7 39 20 43 33t 42 >3t 53 23t 269 46 584 44 I I 6 j -13. 38 N oon. 59 33$ 53 234, 624 47 9 21 4 7 53t 34 474 53 234 270 444 6z4 45 I I 6 2 3 21 20 41 58 42 4i 53 25 273 71 58 444 6 8 -14. Noon. 59 3 H 53 254 - 62 46 I I 10 39 I 5 22 4 23 5°i 53 26 274 67 45' 5 1 37 26 20 27 58F 40 5i 53 29 f 276 56 45 6 % 111 I ^ 1 Noon. 59 34 i 53 3°t 624 46 I 10 47 6f 5 44 6 20 41 £ 53 3 °t 277 554 ^>24 45i 6 --16. 2 3 58 4 * 19 2 42s 27 35 i 53 27I- 279 484 52 44 6 ? Noon. 59 4 53 26-^ 62 46 9 32 4 4 41 4it 29 55t 53 25I. 2-8 I 164 62 46 t 6 1 26 ot 20 43 3 42 i 9 t 53 25 283 1 4 t 624 45 6 h -- 17. Noon. 59 484 53 2 It 624 47 8 47 32 4 8 49t 34 5°t 53 174 284 2X| 621 47 6 2 3 10 54i l8 39 35 24 i5i 53 414 286 1 84 6 TheShip'scourle' 2 57 23 54 35i ©* f.i7°E S. E. 6f miles 5 i O -18. Noon. 58 z8z •• 134 . an hour. The i Cape Gloucester N. /rar. 54 latitudes ded u- > Cape hoir S. 62° E. 4 41 5 6 58 5 3iV ced were, 54 0 5 6 29 57 5i 304 $N,68°W. 13 7 , and 54 0 5 Cape Noir S. 62° E; 8 I '3 T* . 45 30 4 17 l8 t 33 28 1 54 M 287 94 50 6 Cape Noir N. 2 0 W. 22 13 42 *7 50 44 17 374 55 134 288 34-: 54 45 * 5 Cape Desolation N. 4° E. 0 59 3K 2Q 38 424 41 9 55 J 7t 289 64 59 46s 6 s C. Desolation N. 56° W. 1 Gilbert's Isle N. .62° E. r -19 8 46 Noon. 57 54 55 20s 184 64-4 50 3. 4- Gilbert's Isle N. true. 44 4 24 261 32 23 55 3<>t 289 654 48 6 2 3 25 48 19 7 264 28 2 5t 55 384- 289 544 6 54 54 6 York Minster N. 17 0 E. $ -20- 8 Noon. 57 36 55 394 654 54 York Minster N. 6 ° W, 32 21 4 15 24 33 43i 55 3-4 290 *5 68 53 r 6 ' This evening we anchored in Christmas Sound, on the S. W. side of Terra deL Fuego, where I found that the watch was gaining 12 '■>377 a day on mean time, which is so near what it was gaining at New Zealand, that I made no difference in the manner of computing the longitude of the ship by it. It made the longi- tude of Christmas Sound 2qo° 19 ' 41' £ East of Greenwich. -28. 33 5 i3 48 54 8 St. Ildefonfo's Isles 8 9 9 25 204 55 49t 291 ! S. 40° to 50° W. 0 50 57 20 39 14 40 504: 55 5 6 t 293 64 58 49i 7 1 C. Home S. 63° W. ! about 6 miles off. 3 z
268 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS 1774 Tims by Watch K. Apparent Time. Altitude of the Q's L. L. Latitude South. Longitude East by K. Them A. 10m. B, 25 0 b •*" Q Remark}, H H ' " 0 O / 0 * cr* £L y. Dec. 29 . Noon. 57 2 tf 55 43s 64 5 2 i i Barneve]rsIileS.38°W. Event's Isle N. 69° W. 8 6 42 3 59 42 35 43 i 55 28 294 2\\ 64s 53 8 9 55 57 5 49 52 20 I2f 55 20 294 3 8 i 65 524 6 1 6 4 21 1 32 44 9t 54 52s 2 95 Lf 63 54 6 Success BayN. W. ? - 3 0, Noon. 58 8} 54 53 65 56s ; Success Bay 8. 8i° W. C. Diego N. 4.50 W-and C*St* ^ Anthony N* 45° E" 9 4 i 42 5 36 50 21 5 4 i 54 55 2 95 7 i 65 54 6 1 C. of Good Success 8. 36° 1 W. C. St. Diego N. j 30 W. h - 3 i 8 38 Noon. 58 J 5 54 42 s 62 52? 17 4 37 2 3 ° 24-r 54 41 296 9 t 63s 6 ' At anchor off New 9 36 16 5 34 49 22 7 i 54 41 296 8f 5 ii 6 j'Year's Island. 2 3 l 3 33 19 II 2 3 i 28 42 t 54 41 296 4 f 597 52 6" f 58 InNewYear'sHar- 1775 3 54 4844 No dip. hour, Staten Land. o Jan. 1. Noon. 4 I 1 58 12 54 4 °tt Dip 3' 30" [Observed by C. Cook, Hon the N. E. point of 296 8i .New Year's Island. 0 14 41 20 11 54 37 17s 54 4-1 591 47 6 2 26 7i 53 2lf ' 1 567 47 f 5 At anchor off New " -- 2. 6 40 36 46 42 i f 54 4 i 64I 49 f 2 6 Z2 14 45 12s . i 6 4 i 49 f 5 Year's Isles. 8 45 16 4 42 ISt 29 3 2 t 54 4 i 296 6 671 5 i? 6. 22 22 18 18 20 3 21 l 3i 54 46s 296 22|: 571 49 5 i C. St. Juan S. 54° W. [ distant about 5 miles. 1 9 i2i to On -p- O 44 32 7 54 54 296 19s 6 C. St. Bartholomew S- 59° W. C. S. Juan N. - 3 - 36 Noon. 57 47 54 55 f 44 f 527 C.St.JuanN.2°W. 7 55 3 34 24 39 34 54 53 296 22-f 4 Ditto N. 2 0 W. 22 22 55 i 18 25 40 22 of 55 1 if 297 47 ^ 54 f 47 6 3 -- 4 28 Noon, 57 47 55 32s 60 5 i 22 53 19 8 294 27 5 ^ 56 47 f zoo 59 i 50 44 6 n --- 5 46 Noon. 55 22f 57 8f 59 47 9 11 5 33 16 22 19 s 57 17s 302 431 64 457 5 0 37 484- 21 8 454 43 9t't 57 47 305 "f 55 ? 43 6 ? - 6 4 1 7 f 53 59 r ; 57 53 f Ship's course E. 6 miles an H 6 5 45 37t 40 27? hour. (424 7 7 24 34 4 0 10 34 33 -s 58 2 306 261 '6^ 1 °/ 4 - 43 8 Cloudy. 10 3 ° 29 19 9 11 27 52s 57 20| i °7 16| 47 40; 8 Bad horizon. h --- 7 - Noon. 55 16s 57 of 61 40s 7 50 5° 4 28 44 3 ° 53 f 56 37 f 307 8z 62 43 6 8. *3 24 30 20 4 50 35 35t 55 " 4 t 307 54 f 5 I t 44 6 O 16 Noon. 57 of 55 8f 61L 49 7 3 * 4 14 28 32 5 "i 55 4t 308 371 67s 5°i 6 2> 9 - Noon. 56 49 t 55 "f 63 4 St
ON BOARD THE RESOLUTION. 269 1775- Time by Watch K. Apparent Time. 1 Altitude I of the ©'* L. L. Latitude S. Longitude Ealt by K. The A. l-mom. L. I ^ O O Remarks. H * H ' " 0 ' O ' O * or F Jan. 10. Noon. 57 i7i 54 35f 66f 45 Very cloudy. 21 39 13 18 44 36 23 57t 54 3 8 l 3*4 34! 5*1 42 § 6 S -. 11. 18 Noon. 57 7t 54 364 47 7 4 4 14 18 32 43t 54 351 3*5 471 69 45 6 U -12. Noon. 57 54 28s 59 f 42i - 14. Noon. 57 i8f 53 564 6ii 37* t> 47 5 4 15 42 32 i 3t 53 574 320 53s 6if 37i 6 Willis'* Ifle N. 83 °E 7 47 29 5 *6 6f 23 22I 53 574 320 54 62s 37i 4 T> - - 16. 26 Noon. 56 28 t V 54 25I 57* 39? 6 5 3 58 0 34 28s 54 8f 32* 594 6 20 57 12 18 32 54 21 24-^ 53 58 323 *i 52 35l 6 | Possession Bay S, 45? F F - 17. Noon. 56 4*1 54 of 6if 39f - C. BuIler'N. 85" W. Cap Saunders S. 8$°E. and Pos 5 53 16s 3 3° 381 38 12* 54 3 s 323 29s 62 39t 6 . session Bay 3 . by E.tj miles - 18. 21 6 57 *8 47 5t 23 214. 54 2i 324 i6f 49t 37 s 6 1 Cooper's Island S. ,8° E. | Cape Saunders N. 78® W 8 Noon. 56 O-g- 54 3°i 62 43 i Cooper'sIflandS. 2 0 W | CapeGeorgeS.67°W 5 59 17 3 40 26 36 324 54 35 324 34f 66k 4*1 6 | Cooper's Island S. 170 W 21 46 52 19 28 16 29 87 54 42t 324 424 49? 37* 6 , Ditto, S. 53® W. 1 Clerke's Isles E. S. E. U - 19. Noon. 55 351 54 424 604 45 1 C. Charlotte S.49® W. A rock oft Sandwich Bay 61 ( S. go* vv. 6 1 59 3 43 0 35 57i 54 474 324 40i 42 6, 20 49 3 18 27 49 20 19 55 0* 324 **L 52 39 6 Cooper's Island N, E, _ C. Disappoint. N, 57® W. ? - 20. Noon. 55 2f 55 3 i 66 43 i Pic(cerfgiir*IslandN.59°W C, Disappoint, N. f 1* W. 6 38 0 4 18 25 3 ° 45 55 *°i 324 39 62s 39 6 6 56 16 4 41 18 27 19 + 55 *5 k 325 554 68 40 6 The horizon bad. ON. 78° W. at i 8 - 25. 2 21 46 52 534 56 <4 " 2 d Obs. Ship's 5 5 48 56 34 53 r course E. by S. 5 5 i miles an hour. 6 28 35 4 18 54 f 29 36 56 94 3*7 43 , .4 20 39 9 18 35 4° 20 28s 57 87 329 20 47 4 42 i 5 -- 26. 20 41 40 18 37 55 20 47 57 87 329 *6 47 4 42| 5 V Noon. 5 * 4t 57 38I 62 ^ 41s 20 48 8 18 44 20 2 1 28-4 59 *5 329 214 49 4 39 7 ? -27. 23 0 47 i 21 0 24 37 21A 60 45. 33 ° 29 r 6o4 35* 5 Foggy. h - 28. Noon. 48 ?r 60 5s 63 I37 Ditto. 6 57 29s 500 23 7 60 54 33* 5 6zi 331 4 Very cloudy. O - 29. Noon. 47 55l 60 if: 64 39 Ditto. $ - zi. Noon. 48 I2| 59 I2 t 61 37 1 shule S. S. W. 7 or S leagues off. 5 2 29 3 " 32 35 46s j 59 6 333 of 65 39 1 4 |
2JO astronomical observations > Time by Apparent Aid ude of the ©'" L. L. Latitude Longitude Them iom. 2 O - ,arri"'-iw ,iL . *775* Watch K. Time. South. East by K. A. B. O *-*■1 O Remarks. H H ' " 0 ' 0 0 cr $ Jan. 3 1 - 20 1 52 18 11 14 16 44 58 37? 333 8 ? 48 s 3 34 5 C.MontaguN. 4 ; p E. 8 Feb. i. Noon. 48 424 S 8 25 644 39 Ditto, E.&Friefland's Peak S. 26 ° E. 5 2 40 3 n 531 35 5*i 58 2 I| 333 84 66 35 4 % - 2. 7 49 53 5 59 5o l4 10 57 484 333 24 I 62 37 6 i -- 3- 2 10 48 49 "t 6 i| 66 4 21 14 if 19 27 38 s 25 33t 56 44 334 27 56 364 4 h -- 4- Noon. 49 32 56 44 64 38 A bad horizon. 20 43 7 19 1 48 21 463- 57 6 335 47* 464 364 8 o -,- 5- 7 14 26 5 3 8 1 16 i7 57 264 337 3- 57 37 6 v 6 20 23 14 19 1 22 26 7 58 21 340 484 1 22 8 3 20 47 461 34 1914 58 2I| 34i 124 504 38 6 $ - 7> Noon. 46 55?" 58 26I 564 374 '©N. a 8 ° W at I 3 3 11 46 4i4 58 24 " sd Observation. 6 3 3 8 57 39 *9? Ship's course E. 6 8 miles an hour. ' 6 5° 28s 5 39 13 15 421 58 284 343 29 ? 57 354 8 20 1 29 l8 55 58I 20 84 58 297 344 574 45? 354 6 8 - -. 8. Noon. 46 33t 58 294 59? 374 '9 15 0 18 16 56 14 48I 58 28 346 524 474 354 3 20 3i 36 l9 33 40 24 441 58 28 346 54t 52 354 6 n -- 9> 46 i8| 58 26 - 3 - 621 40 5 9 58 4 13 344 2 6 164 58 264 347 194 67 40 6 18 58 57I 18 6 52 1.3 Ut 58 17 348 25 I 50 33 6 ? -__ lO, Noon. 46 io| 58 1 5^ 60 344 4 59 18 4 15 6 25 5°i 58 16^. 35° 251 61 34 2 22 6 52 2 l 28 52 37 444 58 7 35 2 °4 61 34 6 h - 11. Noon. 45 54t 58 64 46 364 19 20 3 18 46 38I 17 5i4 58 23 353 I2| 504 33 0 - 12. Noon. 45 264t 58 204 66 374 6 5 2 8 4 3° 26I 23 i 9 t 58 20 353 294 67 35i 19 *9 6 r 8 51 48 18 1544 58 2 354 47 5 i *3 Noon. 45 3o4 57 561 594 33 A great sea. r 9 42 35 19 Zl I 0 | 23 16 57 28s 358 H|4 CO 43 32 6 -- 14- Noon. 45 43t 57 23 L 52 4 324 [ An exceeding 1 high sea. 4 24 24 4 19 3 6 24 234 57 20 0 28I 54i 37 8 19 12 54f iq iq 42 21 354 56 474 i 3 234 434 344 j 3 ! Cloudy, & a great sea 19 56 23! 20 3 32 27 2 3 t 4 5 6 46s 1 3 294 46 ! 344 I 6 I Having now made upwards of 360° of Longitude, 1 rejected a circle, and repeated $ February 14th, to make my day correspond with the day at Greenwich. F i .4 Noon. 46 94 56 374 5 6 4 35? 6 4 20 34 4 33 54f 22 264 56 18 5 34 57 35 k A troublesome sea. 20 7 21 20 24 8 30 55 3°4 5 56 s 50 354 6 ^ 8 15 Noon. 47 of 55 264 58 36;
ON BOARD THE RESOLUTION. 271 1775- Time by Watch K. Apparent Time. Altitude of the 0's L. L. Latitude 8. Longitude East by K. The A. morn. B. 2 0 0^ Remarks. H H ' " S O ' O § V Feb. 16. 4 39 55 4 59 54 18 28I 54 24-5- 6 47" 60 334 *6 19 16 40 19 43 4 24 27L 54 2i4 8 244 5° 33 6 ? -17. Noon. 47 2ii 54 23t 581 3 6 364 3 44 4 4 15 *4i 24 35i 54 25 9 36i 65 6 T? -- 18. Noon. 47 ot 54 23 16 6ii 344 Very cloudy. O -19. 20 0 22f 20 57 0 33 304 54 j 3t 3 364 6 r -20. Noon. 46 26 54 154 56 40 19 33 4 20 39 53s 3 56 54 254 18 374 55 36 6 F - 21. Noon. 45 554-: 54 244 - 61 37 Cloudy. 3 5 38 4 16 5t 23 x8t 54 224 19 324 64 37 8 c Cloudy and bad i horizon. 18 16 1 9 19 40 8 21 43 55 4 21 364 474 35 3 Cloudy. 18 21 48s 22 24-rV 55 4 2 I 3ii 474 35 2 Very cloudy. 21 11 21 41 36s Ship scourseS. 36 5 22 26 IO 44 44i \55 11 E. £ E.54miles 36 2 Very cloudy. L -22. 23 23 19 Noon. 43 534- - an hour. 5 V -23. 16 45 104; 54 26-z- 614 354 18 42 19 55 9 24 284- 53 94 26 35 50 37 4 Ditto. 19 22 52 21 I I5f 33 23A 53 5t 26 34 52 38 8 Cloudy, r -24. Noon. 4b 23F 52 51? 59i 384 17 33 29r 19 20 *9 32 50 5 2 4 28 38 5 F -25. 18 Noon. 48 19 5° 334 54 41 7 45 "9 59 43 25 3 8 4r 49 37 . 29 584 56 404 6 19 45 24 21 37 44 39 24t 49 3-4 30 4i 59 42 6 Ditto. 0 -- 26. Noon. 49 94: 49 2o£ 6i\ 454 r 27. Noon. 50 9? 47 584 664 47 - O N. 31 W. at -28. 23 5 246 54 26 Observation. 6 Bad horizon. 0 39 41s 37 0 Ship's course N. W.44 miles anh.. ' 5 2 25 28 4 32 46| 20 25-f 46 49 33 464 634 434 6 s March i. 17 27 Of 19 24 33 I 9 39t 45 54 3i 24 8 Very cloudy. -2. 56 Noon. 5i 27 45 324 54i 47 2 11 4 8 4. 24 24 4- 45 14 3i 2| 54 43 6 17 18 13 19 11 28 l 7 254- 44 84 3° 194 49 42 6 ? -3- Noon. 52 431 43 534 6z 49f 44 2 27 0 4 19 24 22 35 344 43 344 30 524 44 6 17 29 16 l 9 "9 3 18 43 43t 29 27L 534 5>f 10 Very hazy. h -4. Noon. 52 264 43 4b z 5 b f 55 1 45 5 3 32 34 3° 164 43 494 28 524 59 i>7 3 1 56 28 3 44 9t 28 21 43 494 28 55 59 6 -7 33 24s 19 15 46 17 39i 44 54 27 354 56L 53 6 0 -- 5. Noon. 52 1 43 49? 36^ 584 504 17 4i 3 19 23 29 18 594 42 44t 27 54 5 *4 6 D --- 6. Noon. 53 3i 42 231 564 52s 1 7 35 2 50 if 37 29 42 14 26 59? 54 6 l 7 9 32 18 49 18' 12 37 3 1 41 33 55i 57 4 57
272 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS 1775- Time by Watch K. Apparent i ime. Altitude of the &'s L. L. Latitude S. Longitude Eall by K. Ther A. morn. B. No. of Obf. Remarks. H ' '' H ' " O 0 ' & March 7. Noon. 53 * 5 i 41 484 6 3 617 1 28 27I 3 7 42 i 34 28-f- 41 394 26 48s 64 6o| 2 17 54 2 19 3i 5 8 4 20 13-f- 41 344 26 274- 644 62 6 8 * "■ 8 • Noon. 52 5 H 4 1 47 t 684 64 17 22 59 18 57 54i 13 3 8 4 42 14 25 4 *t 65 62 6 % - 9. Noon. 52 104 42 6 67 634 3 0 49I 4 32 364 18 54 i 42 94 24 54t 57 564 6 18 5 37 19 36 9 20 32s 41 10 24 354 5 8 4 54 10 Very cloudy. ? -- IO. Noon. 52 564 40 564 594 52 4 1 55 25 3 24 4 l 3 1 51 40 50 24 16 604 524 5 2266 3 55 21 25 42| 40 49f 24 154 61 524 10 *7 37 3 j 2 19 6 32 I 4 59* 40 3 24 12 57 4 51 6 h - - II. Noon. 53 264 40 2JL. 59 574 20 37 6 22 8 20 46 4 3 8 57 24 434 61 6if 6 Very cloudy. Q - - 12. Noon. 54 iJt 38 504. 6i| 62 r 34 25 3 4 t2 34 46? 3 8 444 24 22f 65 634 6 19 39 19 21 4 48 36 54 t 37 334 23 164 674 68| 8 X> -- 13. Noon. 55 24 t 37 70 4 71 1 45 28s 3 7 34 34 5 2 to- 37 5i 22 254 73 724 6 19 24 35 20 46 Z4 33 531-4 36 3 8 4 22 28 72 7°4 6 F 14, Noon. 55 5i4 36 274 72 727 2 33 22f 3 56 134 25 534 36 18s 22 35-4 73 7°4 6 17 37 3 8 18 59 56 13 194 35 204 23 *9t 7 1 69 6 8 - 15. Noon. 56 39t 35 1544 7 1 724 2 55 3 8 4 18 3 8 21 30 35 27i 23 264 734 69 10 18 50 i4t 20 12 84 27 33 34 49 22 194 69 67 6 V -- 16. Noon. 56 424 34 49 tV 7 i 69 2 16 27 3 37 44 29 25 i 4 34 49i 22 94 7i4 684 6 J 7 45 23 19 2 38 13 284 34 56 21 8Z 70 69 6 ¥ -- 17, Noon. 56 54 35 2 70 70 2 46 6 4 3 21 24 44 35 74 21 io| 704 694 6 -7 47 46 13 324 34 5 8 20 544 70 68 6 T? -- 18. Noon. 55 44f 34 59 i 7'4 704 21 32 12-1- 22 46 454 5i 3 1 34 497 20 25 67 654 2 O - lg t Noon. 55 294 34 51 A 674 654 i 3 38 2 17 24 42 504 34 57 20 8 674 654 6 19 40 284 33 °4 34 18 677 65 6 TheTable-hillE. by N. 5 - 20. Noon. 55 434 34 13 664 661 TheTable-hillN.8o°E. <? -- 21 0 5 1 37 1 59 55 t 45 3 2 t 18 48 797 764 5 In Table Bay. I carried the watch on shore at the Cape of Good Hope, and compared it with the clock every day from the 24th to© April 23, (s ee p 132). From there compa- rifons, it appeared that the watch was then gaining 13 ,204 a day on mean time, that it was too (low for mean time at the Cape on z March 24 at noon by 1 h. 14' 15" 6 , and gave the longitude of the Cape Town 18 ° 36' 40 East of Green- wich, reckoning in the manner which I did in our passage rrom JNew Zeaiand.
ON BOARD THE RESOLUTION. 2 ?3 1775- Time by Watch K. Apparent Time. H ' H ' " V March 23. Altitude of the 0's L. L. Latitude S, Longitude Thermion. Z East by O K. A. 'B. r O / 0 * Remarks if. April 27 ?-28 h --29 o -30 r May x % -4. r-5 If we reckon all the way from England at its Greenwich rate, it will place the Cape Town 343 0 15' East of Drake's Island, or 338° §9-4 East of Greenwich. It will be found, (p. 14.) that the watch was too slow for mean time at the Cape, on Nov. 14 at noon 1772, by - - It stopped June 28, 1774, - - - -. H ' " 1 30 5°>3 2 10 41,0 Their sum is - - - - z 4.1 ^1,3 The watch ought to have gained between Nov. 14, 1772, and March 24, 1775, according to the rate it was going at when here last o 17 12,0 Hence it ought to have been too stow, March 24 at noon, by - 3 24 19,3 I found it actually too slow that day at noon, by -. - 1 14 13,6 The difference is ^ - - - - 2 10 3,7 equal to 32 0 30' 55 \ of longitude, the error of the watch in two years and five months nearly. The following longitudes of the sliip are computed, on supposition that the watch gains as above-mentioned, that it was too slow for mean time at the Cape on © April 23 at noon, by 1 h. / 38^,48, and that the longitude of the Cape Town is 18° 23' 15" East, as was determined by Messrs. Mason and Dixon, in the year 1761, >8 40 18 Z9 18 46 19 2 4 20 20 15 4 23 18 58 23 49 o 44 3 46 19 2 19 42 i 3 6\ 30 11 44 31 14 39 56 56 3 45 34l l 9 42 53s Noon. 19 32 io| Noon. 19 29 4 Neon. 19 38 20 Noon, 4 54 Zvi 20 44 55 Noon. 4 5 1 33 19 22 28 Noon. rol 5 0 2 4 9 19 24 Noon. 4 6 44 Noon. 12 42 IO 43 to 44 12 45 6 2 5 46 7 10 47 47 44 1 5 10 47 16 47 34i 49i 554 49 t 394 44i 43 t 3 H 18* 324 "4 t 64 12 7 °4 54A 4i4 16 26s 3 °i 33 4 32 50 3i 454 3 1 Al 20 29 3° i?4 29 21 29 n4 29 i4 2.8 20i 28 Iii 28 04 27 I2i 27 04 r'! 26 50 2 6 424 26 34 ttt 26 254 26 2 16 424 14 124 11 5 1* 10 xii 9 8 8 7 3 8 i '4 354 7 i 10 Ship's 63! 66 65L 66 641 64 634 654 67 66 67 68 68f 70 course N.N.W. |W. 3I miles an h. 47 4i4 6 3°l 7 1 4 69 s 69I 7°i 7*4 63L 68f 64 62 63 63! 661 65 6 5f 664 66} 67 69 -69 169 68| 66f 674 68 | 67 Cloudy. Cloudy. !<g t-3 '5 J4 *
7* O " ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS 274 * 775 * 9 May 5 . h - 6 . 7 8 . Time d Watch I H 21 39 55 3 19 4 •9 3 20 4 19 44 19 15 47 39 3 7 3 6 5 5 - * "4 -- i - h - 10 . 11 . 12 . 13 14. 1 5' 16. 17 18 21 . 22 . 23 - 24 21 9 39 37 3k 4 17 9 35 27 11 3 19 4 19 4 20 4 5 19 4 22 4 22 5 21 20 2 I 20 20 58 13 37 J 9 33 3*i\ 39 37 2 3 44 10 2 24 31 *4 27*| 4i 33 45 24 16 58 52 33x| 1 29 5 43 17 25 44 55 45 30 7 404 13 46 20 31 31 Apparent Time. Altitude of the m L. L. H ' " 0 38 •44 Noon. 48 •5 19 25 16 18 384 11 33 i Noon. 49 3*4 4 45 464 9 254 sfj 11 24 8 59 -A Noon. 50 374 - 3 37 57 f 23 43 -A 20 0 56 9 5 °i Noon. 5 i 40 4 3 504 19 2| O OO N> 11 l6 Noon. 52 3 °! 20 56 54 Zl 2 9t Noon. 53 2 3 43 4 23 54 i 19 20 544 12 9t Noon. 53 12 4 16 16 *7 *4 19 20 56 12 19 Noon. 53 41-r 4 3 264 20 ii 19 47 224 18 18 Noon. 54 234 - 3 59 53 21 44 - 4 49 464 - 10 224 19 l 4 52 11 3 l t Noon. 54 53i 4 16 4 17 5*1 21 46 56 4 i S3t Noon. 54 45 4 4 22 29 16 244 21 31 16 39 2 Noon. 54 3 2 - 4 - 4 35 * 7 - *3 334 Noon. 54 19 20 43 534 - 29 45 A- Noon. 54 20 5 304 22 •5t 21 5 36 34 194- Noon. 54 39 i 1 9 20 334 >3 44 19 26 47 26s Noon. 55 3 1 19 38 44 >7 4 2 t Latitude South. Longitude Last bv K. 0 0 2 5 84 5 5 2 5 04 24 454 4 4°t 2 3 44t 3 40-r 2 3 2 7i 2 3 114 3 of 22 2 3i 2 r-4 22 5 21 55 1 35 21 it 0 33 20 46 i 20 34t 0 2k 19 49 0 48 s *9 39t •9 3f 1 55 18 5 2 4 18 4§t 2 204 18 32t 2 35 18 27s 18 224 2 464 l 7 544 3 6t l 7 43 l 7 34i 3 29s 16 564 4 2-4 16 464 16 39t 4 3it 16 37t 4 3'4 16 10 4 574 16 -4 15 564 5 33 •5 55t 5 4^4 •5 554- •5 557 5 46s *5 55i 5 454 •5 55t 1 5 55t 5 474 15 55t l 5 33i 6 •54 15 24:: '4 454 7 39t 14 43 7 464 J 4 33t -3 45 9 3* •3 45 9 284 13 3 ot 12 61 10 §•7 Therr A. nom. B. Zl p O O cr 7-" Remarks, 68 6st 6 Very cloudy. 68t 66 Cloudy. 68i 67 3 Ditto. 66 f 65! 6 68 674 68 66f 5 664 65 s 6 67t 68 67 677 6 68 67t 4 68t 68t 68s 67s 6 68 677 6 69s 694 69 s 70 6 72 7°f 72i 70 6 7°t 6 9 t b 7 2t 7 2 t 734 7 1 5 7i 70s 5 73 74 724 7 2 t 6 70s 70 6 73 72s 74 72t 6 734 72s 6 72 7i 6 73i 7 2 73 7 2 t b 73t 67 73t 75t 73f 73 6 On board the ship at 7 2 f 7' 5 ). anchor off James's 73 73 Fort, St. Helena. 74 73t 6 73 7 2 4 J : •72t 70 6 Very cloudy. 7°4 70 Ditto. 7 2 t 727 6 Cloudy. 73 73- 8 Ditto. 75 74? Ditto. 73t 727 10 73t 7 2 i 5 74! ,73 75 7 2-1 10
ON BOARD THE RESOLUTION. 275 Time by Apparent Altitude Longitude Thei morn. 2 O *775 • Watch K, Time. 0' J L, Li West by K. A. B. O Q Remarks. H ✓ //■ H ' " O ' 0 0 ' cr Z May 24. 20 40 25s 19 47 46 19 394 12 54 10 49 ? 75 73 6 % -- 25. Noon. 57 8 11 424 764 75 5 25 24 431 0 15 53 11 21 11 13 76 * 75 6 26. 20 20 50 19 24 4 i 15 12§- 10 19 11 45 t 754 75 6 ? - Noon. 58 444 9 554-0 774 77 * 5 23 IO 4 24 52 *7 54 t 9 4 °t 12 74 774 774 6 i 9 59 5 i 18 58 44 10 ii 44 8 3 8 12 464 77 764 6 h - 27. 6 45 Noon. 60 n 8 22f 784 79 ' 5 4 3 36 23 12A 8 1 I - 1 3 13 15 ? 78 79 6 20 11 21 1 9 5 54 t 12 4 7 55 13 46* 78-1 774 6 O - 28. Noon. 60 204 7 5 8 4 78 78 t 6 6 7 56 10 25 4 59 *3 5 1 52 11 IO 2544 18 7 7 554 554 14 14 334 3 it 794 784 4 'On board the ship at anchor off the N. W. - side of Ascension. r 29. Noon. 60 13s 7 56? Di P ,44 79 79 I On shore. $ 3 °- Noon. 60 54 7 554 79 8°4 j On board the ship at s 3 1 - Noon. 59 56 7 564 79 ? 82 / anchor off the N. 3 39.31 2 29 59s 42 274 7 554 14 304 79 81* 6 s W. side of Ascen- 5 5 43 3 56 2i 24 45 t 7 554 14 32* 794 8oi 6 j sion. 20 25 44 T 19 13 26 r ,3 564 7 7 15 n 78 77 6 ■4 June 1. Noon. 60 44T 6 594 79 79 * 5 0 24s 3 45 18 27 3 ot 6 5 8 *5 484 79 79 6 20 22 0 l 9 2 5 f 11 304 6 45 t 16 564 794 77 5 ? - 2. 16 9 Noon. 60 524 6 43 * 784 784 5 3 53 8 25 534 6 4 i 4 1 7 4 J t 784 7 87 6 20 48 8 19 *9 54 i 1 5 35 * b 29 18 554 78 * 76 6 b - 3 - Noon. 61 It 6 264 79 78 4 22 37 2 50 45 * 39 c >4 6 25 19 484 79 784 6 20 44 45 *9 7 9 * 12 5 2 4 6 4 t 21 "°r 79 ? 77 6 O - 4 - Noon. 6i 2 OT 6 °4 79 79 * 6 39 7 4 57 4 if 11 494 5 57 t 22 54 79 79 * 6 20 43 "i 18 56 38 10 38s 5 43 t 23 1 64 794 78* 6 v 5 - Noon. 61 354 5 39 79l 80 4 5 i 35 3 1 42 f 37 I 3 t 5 364 24 64 80 80 6 6. 20 51 16 1 8 55 9 * 10 29I 5 i 4 t 25 374 804 794 6 F - - Noon. 61 59 ? 5 84 8 i 4 b 3 32 4 3 3 8 t 24 124 5 44 26 3 o 4 8o| 804 6 21 1 52 18 57 18 11 24 5 I 27 37 80 794 6 8 7 - 26 11 Noon. 62 44 4 574 80 81 6 4 19 12 20 5"4 4 481 28 11 80 81 6 8. 21 17 3 8 i 19 6 2 i .3 2 5 tV 3 59 29 1 64 to 80 6 V - Noon. 63 1 it 3 44 t 804 824 - 5 *9 *3 3 4 34 i 37 324 3 45 t Zo o| 81 8 i 4 IO 21 18 36 18 56 50 1 1 26,4 3 43 gi 43 8°i ^Oi 6. r -- 9 - Noon. 63 8 3 437 82 5 The Island Ferdinands) de r ' i NoronhaS. W.byW.iW. 4 B
2 7 6 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS Time by Apparent Altitude of the m l. l. Latitude Longitude sherir f \ 1775 - Watch K. Time. South. Welt by K. A. B. O ? ~"-i 0 Remarks. H ✓ // H ' '' 0 ' 0 0 cr* ' " *. 1 8 i 4 j The Spire Rock on Ferdi. ? June 9 - 5 9 21 2 43 584 41 384 3 53 i 32 3°4 8 i 4 71 rando de Noronha S. 8 z° 1 s W. about 3 leagues off. The said Rock, which if 6 15 57 3 5 ° 32 27 354 3 52 32 344 8 l 4 814 6 near the middle Island, 8. 270 of the W. 4f 21 16 45 18 5 i 52 10 5 oJ 2 23 32 234 so 80 I 6 leagues. T? --- IO. Noon. 64 49 1 57 81* 824 7 9 57 4 45 24 16 1 9 i x 34 f 32 164 811 6 21 35 5 19 10 30 15 47 t 0 35 * 32 I2f 79 * 794 6 O --- ii. Noon. 66 3 ° i 0 1 if Dip 34 8o4 81 North. 7 0 12 4 35 47 19 134 O I2f 32 74 804 81 6 21 5 8 45 19 34 584 - 22 I2t 1 3 of 3 1 547 8 of 8of 6 r 12. Noon. 68 2 84 - i 5°4 Dip 34 81 8 if 6 32 37 4 8 48 26 9 i 2 iof 3 i 524 8 if 8 if 6 21 5 1 5 ° 19 28 30 21 334 3 344 3 1 41 * 81 6 $ -- * 3 - Noon. 70 2 4 i 3 494 8 of 8if 2Z 6 454 - 20 42 50.4 3 8 42-4 4 25 t 3 i 43 * 7 8 * 794 6 8 . - 14 7 8 25 4 44 5 °i 18 55 4 364 3 1 36 s 80 78 6 23 53 i 3 t 21 3 1 414 : 49 564 5 324 3 1 1 7 8 4 Very cloudy. U i 5 - 23 5 1 54 21 31 454 5 ° i 4 i 6 8 30 334 79 6 Ditto. r - - 16. Noon. 72 354 - 6 9 s Sis 6 21 13 4 1 104 29 324 6 1 of 3 ° 307 81* 8 of 6 % 17. Noon. 72 371 6 13 79 * 79 7 36 12 5 16 34 12 16T 6 13 30 x 7 * 80* 794 6 23 7 434 - 20 47 18 40 26 A 6 8 30 254 794 794 774 6 o -- 18 Noon. 72 35 r 6 I2f 7 8 6 21 46 4 0 45J 29 314 6 12s 30 3 i 4 8 i 4 8of 6 21 23 40 18 48 32 16 59 7 0 3 ° 2 74 8cf 79 t 6 v - 19. Noon. 73 2 94 7 8f 82 s 82 7 1 32 4 39 38 21 64 7 *3 3 ° 3 8 * 81 794 b 21 17 84 18 53 464 1 5 J 7 * 7 54 30 5 6 4 804 6 21 32 47 19 9 *9 18 5 i 4 7 54 3 ° 5 8 4 8>L 8of 7 t 20 . Noon. 74 3 it 8 1 of 8i| 81 7 2 37 4 36 32 22 i6t 8 2 5 t 3 1 34 * 8 x 4 8 of 6 21 25 46 18 55 20 16 8f 9 io 4 32 3 6 4 80 794 10 8 21. Noon. 75 494 9 284 8 if 8 3 6 15 32 3 42 13 35 1 of 9 42 f 33 X 44 8 of 81 5 21 36 1 '9 0 34 -17 4 8f 10 49s 33 527 794 80 6 it 22 Noon. 77 324 n 12 3 1 84* 6 29 48 3 5 1 28 33 42 ix 28s 34 254 80 80 s 6 Very cloudy. 21 59 454 19 18 4 22 32s 1 2 35 t 35 ii 4 78 7 8 4 6 ? - 2Z Noon. 79 1 44 i2 53 f 79 l 80 Very cloudy. 6 50 55 4 7 ro. -30 404 13 44 35 4°7 79 77 * 80 6 21 28 33, !• 18 42 4 14 564 14 144 36 17* 764 6 I Cloudy. * 24 | Noon. 81 04 14 37 t\ 78 7 8 *
ON BOARD THE RESOLUTION 277 *775 Time by Watch K. Apparent Time. Altitude of the L. L. LatitudeN Longitude West by K. Ther A. morn. B. 2 0 O O cr r-i Remarks. H H ' " O / 0 O T? June 24. 6 5 ° 54 4 2 534 32 1l4 14 53 36 35 i 7 /i 78 6 O- 25. Noon. 82 44-A- 16 20J 77 * 821 6 29 29 3 36 384 38 45 i 16 35 37 434 76 s 79 6 Cloudy- . 22 35 7 19 38 46 28 53-f 17 394 38 3 i* 77 i 774 6 v --- 26. Noon. 84 194 *7 534 774 784 6 38 27 3 40 28 38 184 18 74 38 54 s 76 78s 6 21 23 49 18 23 51 12 354 19 94 39 i 9 i 75 ? 75s 6 S - 27. Noon. 85 591 19 31-4 78 6 55 1 3 53 384 35 45 t 19 5 °x 39 38s 76 s 77 6 21 2 5 35 18 13 54 10 50 20 51 39 5 l i 77 75 6 s- 28. Noon. 87 5 i 4 21 20-A 78s 78 7 11 2 4 7 94 33 i °4 21 4 i 4 40 9 i 78s 80 -4 Cloudy- 2 46 394 - 23 4 i 7 85 28 23 84 40 29s 81 78 s 6 % - 29. Noon. 89 43-4 23 IO-rV 78s 81 3 25 7 0 19 44 85 164 23 n 4 40 264 81 78 s 6 22 22 43 19 14 43 25 28 24 47 41 if 75 f 76s 6 ?- 3 °- Noon. 87 5°4 25 94 Dip 4 f 77 8 of 7 6 384 - 3 57 494 36 5 25 3o 4 i 11 77 80 6 21 13 7 18 2 42-4 io 354 26 344 4 i 3 1 75 74 ? 6 July 1. Noon. 85 52 27 44 Dip 4 i 76 764 6 6 i 9 2 55 294 50 8-4-0 27 2-4 4 i 351 75 f 76 IO 7 *7 54 4 7 94 34 2 1-4 27 264 41 33 * 75 * 76 6 2 3 56 22 20 44 18 45 43 * 28 264 4 i 491 75 744 6 O- 2. Noon. 84 IOj 28 42 Dip 4 i 761 75 5 38 29 2 26 20 59 33 "*-° 28 53 41 48 7 r 77 754 10 7 24 9 4 12 12 33 29-4 28 58 41 45 ? 77 ? 754 6 21 55 57 18 44 51 20 17 29 43 4 i 29* 74 ? 74 6 D - S- Noon. 82 47-4 29 594 76? 74 6 1 4 2 50 48 51 n 4 3 ° 8 4 i i 4 f 76 | 75 6 21 27 84 18 7 414 12 57 tV 3 ° 524 40 58 s 74 734 3 Cloudy* F- 4 - Noon. 81 24s 3 1 1 84 76 75 6 30 28 3 21 224- 44 36-4 Ji 25 , 40 5 °i 6 2 3 i 3 39 20 5 134 37 354 32 224 40 36s 74 73 6 Z- 5 - Noon. 80 5! 32 3-4 76 75 8 28 27 5 20 224 19 5 2 * 32 384 40 29s 77 76 6 23 57 56 20 49 504 46 554 33 5 40 25 s 75 ? 744 6 U - 6. Noon. 79 22-4 33 84 764 764 5 49 18 2 41 32 52 534 33 10 40 19s 784 764 6 6 15 0 3 7 16 47 3 i 4 33 10 40 18f 784 764 5 22 52 7 19 44 27 33 16 33 2 5 t 40 13L 76 75 6 ? -- 7 - Noon. 78 52-i 33 3 2 i 78 77 ? 7 49 39 4 42 33 27 42A 33 384 40 3 i 79 f 6 2Z 5 1 15 20 43 494 45 334 34 r 4 40 4 ? 744 74 6 h - 8. 7 9 *9 4 1 184 36 13? 34 144 40 1 if 77 79 ? 10 23 10 344 20 I 44 36 494 34 55 40 20 75 75 * 5 0 - 9 - Noon. 77 8f 35 3 76? 764
278 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS Q 7 S- Time by Watch K. Apparent Time. Altitude of the 0's L. L. Latitude North. Longitude West by K, Thcr A. B. 2 O O O cr r*i Remarks. H ' // H ' " 0 ' 0 ' O ' O July 9- 7 48 17 4 40 Z 8 28 i4r 35 10 0 0 W" 771. 7 "i 5 2 3 20 18 20 14 25 s 39 2 5-A- 35 34i 39 3° 75 751 6 n - 10 , Noon. 76 1.8 f 35 451 7 49 if 4 45 48 27 16 35 5 8 38 484 771 77 6 22 45 52 r9 49 56 34 26 J 36 44 36 55§ 76 76 s b & - 11 . Noon. 75 36 55-rtr 75-1 6 57 48 468 35 n-i 37 6 35 49r 76 76 b 22 53 33 20 10 2 3 8 2 3ir 37 5 8 33 44t 74 76 6 S -:- 12 . Noon. 73 354 38 I 2 f 76L 754 6 28 4 s 3 49 24 3 8 28 s 3 8 13 32 29 I 74? 75 6 2 3 53 18 21 22 22 52 j 7t 38 28 s 3° 294 73 74 6 Very hazy. % -- iZ- Noon. 73 9i 38 29 -j- 75 74t 6 44 32 4 i7 5 3 2 29 I 38 32 29 3 6 4 75f 74 6 The island Fayal, Fast. In the morning I took the Watch and Astronomical Quadrant on shore, at the Villa de Horta, on the island Fayal, and noted the times of equal altitudes of the Sun by the Watch every day, from the 14th to the 18th inclusive: from whence it appeared that the Watch was then gaining 13",528 a day on meantime, or 0^,324 more than it was gaining at the Cape of Good Hope; and that it was 2 h. 20' to fast for mean time at Fayal on July 18th at noon. The rate of its going, found at this place, being so little different from that which was found at the Cape, I continued to compute the longitude of the ship on the fame suppositions as I had done before. (Cloudy.TheN. Point <?-18. 21 48 53 19 23 28 28 424 3 8 46s 28 39s 73 72J 6 of St. George S. 47 c I , i W. 2 miles off. Very cloudy. Th&E. s-19- r 7 19 3 4 5 8 39 24 25I 39 24 27 22| 74 74 3 end of Tercera S. 13 0 W. 5 league?. 1 21 io 42 18 54 3 8 ! 23 5i 39 9 26 is 7 ! f 72 6 i i 1 24 35 68 184 * O S. 8° W. at' istObf. Ship's 76 5 W - 20. 2 30 15 70 58 39 "3i - course E. |N. 2 751 5 i 3 26 28 65 43's miles an hour. 74f 5 7 24 2 5 9 58J 22 iof 39 *5 t 25 424 72 r 77i 6 21 3A 40 19 25 34 28 56s 39 244 24 4i? 72? 70 6 % -- 21. 5 43 44 3 36 8 40 84 39 264 24 2f 72 74 5 * 22 46 12 20 41 56 43 29s 39 354 23 94 70 7if 5 Very cloudy. :Tj-22. Noon. 70 284 39 374 7G 741 5 3 46 3 1 2f 46 39 t 39 45f 22 45? 7U 73! 6 21 25 II 19 29 13 29 274 40 324 21 i 70 68 to 23 18 I 21 22 38 50 37 t 40 39 20 52J 70! 67I IO b-23. Noon. 69 5 t 40 48 z 7i| 69! 6 6 33 4 13 4 8 32 384 41 4t 20 114 72| 72 6 21 39 37 19 52 12 33 39tV 41 52 18 49s 672 68 6
/ ON BOARD THE RESOLUTION. 1 / 75 - Time by Watch K. Apparent Time. Altitude of the O's L. L. LatitudeN. Longitude Weil by K Thei A. morn. B, O O "h c Remarks. H H ' " 0 0 • ' D July 24. Noon. 67 351 42 ' 70 69L A bad horizon. 5 3 ° 14 3 45 8 37 45 - 42 18 18 I 3 i 70 70 6 21 27 3 6 19 46 40 32 2 5t 43 22 l 7 8 f 68 6 5 f 6 h - 25. Noon. 65 4 8 J 43 4 of 69! 67 5 33 *7 3 55 19 35 34t 43 S7i 1 6 22| 70 68 6 22 16 35 20 44 48 42 i if 45 17 '4 47t 6 4 | 6zi 6 8 - -- 26. Noon. 63 40 f 45 36 66 64 5 2 37 3 34 29I 3 8 44 t 45 53 l 3 5i! 67 634 6 21 l 9 24 19 59 4 33 5544 47 1 11 52 | 64 62^ 6 U - 27. Noon. 61 464 47 i 6 £ 67 64 i 4 49 49 3 2 54 38 28s 47 27 11 69s 6 21 41 39 20 30 56 38 5 °* 47 594 9 26s 65 62 j 6 S - 28. Noon. 60 39 f 48 9f 67 64 i 5 5° 5 8 £ 4 44 50 26 16^ 48 24 8 I 5 r 69 s 65 6 21 2 48 20 6 27 34 26^. 49 174 5 461 65s 62^ 6 T? - 29. Noon. 58 57t 49 371 67s 62^. 4 9 55 OO CO 39 45 49 54t 4 38t 69 64 6 A little before noon on the 30th we anchored at Spithead, and soon after I carried the Watch on shore, in company with Captain Cook and Lieutenant Cooper, to the Observatory belonging to the Royal Academy at Portsmouth, where I transcribed the following Observations of the Sun's transit over the meridian from their books, viz. First Wire. Second Wire. Middle Wire. Fourth Wire. Fifth Wire. ✓ " ✓ xx H ' ✓ // x xx OO 15 8 * 19 5 i 23 0 8 16 91 18 23 8 20 5'- 22 192 8 24 o| 16 14* 19 23* 23 * 9 i 27 Hi 24 19! O'sist Limb. G's ?d Limb. o's ift Limb. O's 2d Limb. G's ist Limb. O's 2d Limb. We then compared the Watch with the Clock as follows: Time by the Clock. Time by Watch K. H ' " H ' " 000 tDVO !>. O 2 6 56* 7 56 8 55i By W. Wales. By Mr. Witched. By Capt. Cook. 4 C
Itf tit .al Ti that is, 28° 41' 5'T- between Fayal and Greenwich; Fayal being so much to the West. - On Monday I brought the Watch up to London with me in a post-chaise 5 and on Tuesday, August 1, carried it down to Greenwich in a coach, and delivered it to the Rev. Mr. Mafkelyne, his Majesty's Astronomer Royal. On comparing it with the Transit Clock there, we found that the Watch shewed o h. 56', when the Transit Clock shewed 9I1. 3'24": The Sun's transit that day was at 8 h. 42' 1 8".36 ; from whence it appears that the mean time of comparing the Watch was o h. 26' 55",6, and of course that the Watch was too fast for mean time at Greenwich by oh. 29' 4", 4 ; and therefore allowing its Fayal rate, it makes the difference of Longitude between Portsmouth and Greenwich 4' 23".85 in time, or x° 5' 51". The Rev. Mr. Mafkelyne found that this Watch lost at the rate of o "4 a day on mean time between March 24th and April 25th 1772, before it went on the voyage; and that it gained at the rate of 13",o a day from August ist to September ist j 775, after its return. From the preceding account it appears to what an amazing degree of accuracy the ingenious Inventor of this Watch had brought this branch of mechanics so long ago as the year 1762, or 3 -, and at the fame time what room is yet left for future improvements by other Artists : but let no man boast that he has excelled him, until his machines have undergone as rigorous a trial as this has done.
ON BOARD THE RESOLUTION. 281 Comparisons of the Time-keepers with each other. Comparisons of Mr. Arnold' s Watches, Nos. 1 and 2 with each other. Time by Time by Time by Time by 1772 • Watch No. 1. Watch No. 2. 1772. Watch No. 1. Watch No. 2. H ✓ " H *' H " H ¥ July 10. Both Watches were set 12 " too $ Aug. 18. 1 46 0 2 39 34 flow for mean time. 8 - 19. 1 53 0 2 46 40 1? - 11. No. 2 stopped. Of 20. 1 24 0 2 17 49 0 12. 0 30 0 1 23 45 ¥ - 21. 2 7 0 3 0 544 D " 3 - 0 29 4 I 23 0 h -- 22. 1 33 0 2 27 4 3 - 14. 0 43 0 I 37 o 4 O 23. 1 10 0 2 4 144 8 - i 5 - 0 34 48 I 29 0 D - - 24. 1 l 6 0 2 10 22 V - -- 1 6 . 0 32 43 1 27 0 S - - 25. 1 8 0 ' 2 2 25 ¥ - 1 7 • X 1 394 - 1 56 0 8 - 26. 0 59 0 I 53 3 is h 18. 0 55 374 - 1 50 0 % 27. 1 0 0 I 54 4 i O 19 - 0 56 434 - I 51 0 ¥ 28. 1 6 0 2 0 494 D - 20. 0 5 i 484 I 46 0 h - 29. 0 36 0 I 3 ° 584 F - 21. 1 10 474 2 5 0 O - 30. 0 42 0 I 37 i° 8 22. 1 14 514 2 9 0 D -- 3 i- 0 50 0 I 45 19 V - 2Z- 1 14 53 2 9 0 F Sept. 1. 0 21 0 I 16 20 ? - 2 4 . 1 14 51 2 9 0 8 - 2. 0 45 0 I 40 26 h - 25 . 1 17 50 2 x 2 0 n 3 - 0 53 0 1 48 29 0 26. i 21 48 2 16 0 ¥ - 4 - 0 31 0 1 26 34 3 ) 27. 1 9 47 2 4 0 J? - 5 - 0 37 0 I 32 5°4 F -- 28. 1 57 464 2 52 0 O - 6. 0 38 0 I 34 13 8 - 29. 0 47 46^ I 42 0 D - 7 - 0 27 0 I 23 294 n - 3 °- IX 26 0 O 20 16 3 - 8. 0 28 0 I 24 36 ¥ - 3 r * 0 59 0 I 53 124 8 9 - 1 1 0 I 57 42 h Ang. 1. 0 37 0 I 31 7 V 10. 0 43 0 I 39 49 s O - 2. X 36 0 2 29 59 ^ ¥ -- - ii. 0 53 0 I 49 5 i D -- 3 - 1 29 0 2 22 554 h 12. 1 10 0 2 7 24 F - 4 - I 34 0 2 27 554 O -- 13 - 0 59 0 I 55 57 8 -- 5 I 31 0 2 24 544 D 14. 0 43 0 I 40 22 4 1; 6. I 53 0 2 46 55 3 - iZ- 1 21 0 2 18 3 i 4 ¥ ■-' 7 - I 32 0 2 25 55 8 - 16. 1 0 0 I 57 454 h 8. I 31 0 2 24 56 V - 17. 1 9 0 2 7 4 Q - 9 - I 44 0 2 37 50 ¥ - 18. 1 7 0 2 5 54 r -- 10. I 47 0 2 40 48 h - 19. 0 56 0 I 54 16 F - n. 2 9 0 3 ■2. 481 O - 20. 1 30 0 2 28 17 ¥ - 12. I 41 0 2 34 464 i - 21. 1 26 0 2 24 "7 % -- 1 3 ' I 44 0 2 37 374 <? 22. 1 8 0 2 6 19 ¥ - 14 . 2 8 0 3 x 30 8 -- 23. 1 27 0 2 25 55 ^ I? - i 5 - 2 5 0 2 58 294 % - 24. 1 11 0 2 9 35 s O - 1 6. 2 5 0 2 58 29 ¥ 25 - 1 34 0 2 31 21 D ry- 2 54 v 3 47 34 26. * 23 0 2 20 27 | - -----
-8- ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS Comparisons of Mr. Arnold's Watches Nos. i and 2 with each other. Time by Time by Time by Time by 1772. Watch No. 1. Watch N°. 2. 1772. Watch N 1. Watch N°. 2. H ' " H ' " H ' H " O Sept. 27. 0 12 0 1 7 45 U Oct. 15. 2Z 41 0 16 22 45 " -28. 1 9 0 2 4 55 ? - 16. 23 5 8 0 16 40 10§ $ -29. 1 17 0 2 13 1 b -- 17. 23 13 0 15 31 I 2 S-30. 1 4 0 2 0 14 O -18. 23 12 0 15 l6 26 it Oct. i. 1 1 0 1 57 2if D 19. 23 2 0 14 42 27 r-2. 0 41 0 1 36 46I i -20. 23 6 0 13 43 41 i t- 3 . 0 41 0 1 36 33 8 -21. 22 58 0 13 36 10 0-4. 0 42 0 1 37 22 n -22. 23 10 0 9 5 5 D - 5. 0 22 0 0 29 34 ? -23. 23 6 0 4 48 29 F-6. 0 27 0 23 32 55 b -24. 22 52 0 4 20 n S 7- 0 25 0 22 17 31 O -25. 22 38 0 4 5 39 it - 8. 0 14 0 21 47 5 D -26. 22 28 0 3 15 5 r -- 9* 0 47 0 2217 i a -27. 22 31 0 3 15 5"f h -10. 0 14 0 2i 47 5 8 -28. 22 26 0 2 35 m O-11. 0 7 0 20 54 z n - 29. 22 7 0 1 16 3H L-12. 0 ii 0 20 22 28 ? -30. 22 26 0 1 36 9 $ -13. 23 55 0 19 57 0 b -31. 22 24 0 1 34 45 L-14. 23 41 0 17 18 2 O Nov. 1. 22 26 0 1 37 16 Comparisons of the Watch K, with Mr. Arnold's No -3- Time by A, Time by Time by A, Time by 1772. N°. 3- Watch K. 1772. N°. 3 - Watch K. H ' " H ' " ti ' H " ? July 10. The Watch K was set o".j n July 23. O 31 0 0 39 574 too fast, and the Watch ? - 2^., O 42 0 0 5- 44r A, N°. 3, too flow by b -25. O 52 0 1 2 33r io"£ for mean time. 0 -26. O 51 0 1 2 22 b - 11. 0 7 16 080 D -27. O 46 0 0 58 l6L O - 12. 0 57 Z6 0 59 0 F -28. l 3 0 I l6 IO r - iz. 0 5 2| 070 8 -29. 1 10 0 I 24 5 $ - 14 . 0 6 21 090 - 3°. 1 59 0 2 14 2 S - 15- 0 20 45 0 24 0 r - 31. 11 25 0 I I 40 54 -4 ->- 16. 0 31 3 1 0 35 0 O Aug. 2. 0 47 0 1 5 i ? - 17. 0 22 25! 0 27 0 V -- 3. 0 59 0 I ,8 14L b - 18. 0 18 44 i 0 24 0 a --- 4. 0 34 0 I 14 32r O - 19 . 0 3 4 3 0 40 0 s r ' 5 ■ 1 22 0 I 43 53i v - 20. 0 28 0 0 34 10 - 6 . 1 6 0 I 29 i3r F- 21. 0 28 0 0 35 24s r - 7. 0 54 0 I 16 35 - 22. 0 30 0 0 38 us b 0 58 0 I 24 o£
ON BOARD THE RESOLUTION 283 - Comparisons of the Watch K. with Mr. Arnold's No 3 * Time by A, Time by Time by A, Time by : 1772. No. 3 - Watch K. 1772. No. 3 - Watch K. H ' H " H ' " H 1 i' 0 Aug. 9. 0 56 0 1 23 24 * - 19. 21 4 0 23 8 154 - O - 6. 23 26 0 0 30 48 r -14. 23 36 0 0 53 29! S - 28. 20 20 0 22 35 564 -15. 23 42 0 1 1 20 2f - 29. 20 19 0 22 36 26 s 16. 23 48 0 1 9 9 ¥ -- 30. 20 9 0 22 28 24 ■4 -- L 7 ' 23 40 0 1 2 40 b 3 i- 20 13 0 22 33 284 ¥ -18. 23 53 0 1 17 41 O Nov. 1. 20 20 0 22 4 i 59 b -19. 23 38 0 1 3 34 * D - 2. 19 4 9 0 22 12 214 O -20 . 23 42 0 1 9 I2f D 16. 20 38 0 23 23- Si D -- 21. 23 48 0 1 16 2 I § S 18. 22 36 0 22 35 i4 4 D
284 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS Comparisons of the Watches with each other. 1772. Time by A, N°. 3. Time by Watch K. 1773 - Time by A, N°. 3. Time by Watch K. H H ' H ' H " n Nov. 19. 23 12 0 23 12 324 - ¥ Jan. 1. 22 20 0 23 i 7 m r 20. 23 12 0 2Z 13 554 T? -- 2. 22 18 0 23 16 52 h ~ ' - 11 ■ 21. 21 3 0 LI 5 55 * G -- 3 - 22 34 0 23 34 28- 0 ' 22. 22 18 0 22 22 ii? D -- - 4 - 22 21 0 23 23 0 D - 1 2Z- 22 25 0 22 30 20 F - 5 - 22 0 0 23 3 27! $ " 24. 22 27 0 22 33 29L 8 - 6. 21 46 0 22 50 53 8 1 ■ 25 . 22 33 0 22 40 424 - 2t -- 7 - 21 7 0 22 13 21 § it 2 6. 22 46 0 22 54 55-4 ¥ - 8. 21 4 0 22 11 5 1 ! ¥ - 27^ 22 3 i 0 22 41 64 1? - 9 - 21 0 0 22 9 26 h - 1 28. 22 3 1 0 22 42 18 G 10. 20 5 o 0 22 1 2| O -' 29. 22 46 0 22 58 29 r 11. 20 3 i 0 21 43 36s r Dec. 30 . 23 14 0 2Z 27 48s $ - 12. 20 19 0 21 33 I2| 4 I. 22 53 0 23 8 24 8 i 3 - 20 21 0 21 36 5 ° 8 2. 22 29 0 22 45 '6| it - 14. 20 16 0 21 33 34 i it 1 " - ' 3 - 22 27 0 22 44 3 1 ¥ - IS- 20 11 0 2 1 30 18 ¥ 4 - 22 15 0 22 33 44 h -- 16. 20 10 0 2 I 3 1 2 h -- 5 * 22 21 0 22 40 564 O -- 17 - 20 14 0 2 I 36 42 s O 1 -" 6. 22 33 0 22 54 Of r - 18. 20 11 0 2 I 35 16s J) -- 7 - 22 26 0 22 48 84 F 19. 20 18 0 21 43 5*5 9 14 0 20 52 225 8 ■" 1 16. 22 3 0 22 37 39 f it - 28. *9 24 0 21 4 1 U i 7 - 21 49 0 22 25 34 ¥ 29. 18 58 0 20 39 395 ¥ -- 18. 21 45 0 22 22 274 h --- 30 . 19 5 0 20 48 -85 h - - 19. 21 40 0 22 18 4 b| G Feb. 31 - 19 0 0 20 44 585 O -- 20. 21 32 0 22 12 14 5 I. 18 43 0 20 29 37 r -- 21. 21 28 0 22 9 38 $ - 2. 18 35 0 20 23 -55 F 22. 21 13 0 21 56 1* 8 - 3 - 18 3 t 0 20 20 59 8 2Z. 21 1 0 21 45 244 it - 4. 18 26 0 20 l 7 45 % 24. 21 11 0 21 56 471 ¥ - 5 - 18 27 0 20 20 28 ¥ 25. 21 21 0 22 8 I2f T? -- 6. 18 36 0 20 30 585 h 26. 2 1 24 0 22 12 36 G 7 - 18 '5 0 20 11 295 O 27. 21 37 0 22 27 2 D - 8. 18 7 0 20 5 6z 5 28. 2 I 47 0 22 38 28L S - 9 - 18 16 0 20 15 5-4 4 * " - 29. 21 55 0 22 47 56 8 - 10. 17 55 0 19 56 304 8 ZO. 22 0 0 22 54 21? 2t 11. i 7 37 0 '9 40 7 U 31 - 22 8 0 23 3 5 l ¥ - 12. 17 37 0 *9 4 i 4 Z 5 T} 13 - l 7 16 0 i 9 22 235
ON BOARD THE RESOLUTION, 285. Comparisons of the Watches with each other. Time by A, Time by Time by A, Time by 1773- N°. 3- Watch K. 1773- N°. 3- Watch K. H H ' H ' H ✓ O Feb. 14. l 7 5 0 19 *3 °T S Marchzo. 10 25 0 13 44 59 v - 15- >7 "4 0 19 23 38 8 -31. 9 3i 0 12 52 344 s -- 16. 16 57 0 '9 8 l6 n April 1. 10 32 0 13 55 54 8 - 17. 17 29 0 19 4i 574 ¥ -2. 9 51 0 13 16 22| n -18. 16 27 0 18 4i 32 -3- 9 4i 0 13 8 I2| ? - 19. 15 59 0 18 i5 8 0 -- 4. 9 33 0 '3 2 6 h -20. *5 52 0 18 9 434- D 5- 10 16 0 13 47 24 O - .- 21. 15 45 0 18 4 23 - 8. 13 22 0 16 5 57 8 ■-21. 9 0 494 13 O 424 9 - 9. 13 19 0 16 4 35 n -22. 9 2 0 13 3 37 8 -10. 12 54 0 15 4i 54 ¥ - 2Z. 9 47 0 12 50 22} if - 11. 12 5 l 0 15 39 39 h -24. 8 58 0 13 3 44 ? -12. 12 36 0 15 26 17 Q -25. 8 37 0 12 43 574 h iZ- 12 28 0 15 19 56 3> -26. 9 58 0 14 6 424 O -14. 12 17 0 i5 IO 354 F -27. 8 45 0 12 55 204 D -15. II 57 0 14 52 io| 8 -28. 10 5 0 14 17 n4 F - j 6. 11 40 0 14 36 424 If -29. 8 57 0 13 10 54 8 -17. II 40 0 14 38 17? ¥ -30. 8 39 0 12 54 344 if -18. 11 14 0 14 13 54 h May 1. 10 48 0 >5 5 294 ¥ -19. 11 11 0 14 12 29 O -2. 8 26 0 12 45 134 h -20. IO 56 0 13 59 4 r -3- 5 15 ~o 9 35 534 O - 2 1. IO 42 0 13 46 38 <f -4. 6 52 0 11 14 424 D -22. IO 35 0 13 41 194 8 -5. 8 18 0 12 42 22 $ - 23. IO 21 0 13 29 4 if ■- 6. 8 46 0 13 12 6| 8 -24. IO 0 0 13 9 374 ¥ -7. 8 23 0 12 5° 474 % -25. IO 9 0 13 20 214 h ---- 8. 8 27 0 12 56 234 ¥ -- 26. IO 54 0 14 7 1 G - 9. 8 38 0 13 8 594 h -27. IO 30 0 13 44 42 D ■-10. 8 22 0 12 54 23} O - 28. 9 39 0 12 55 304 9 -11. 8 45 0 "3 18 55 L 2g. 12 14 0 15 23 27I 8 -1 8 27 0 13 2 24^
ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS a 86 Comparisons of the Watches with each other. lime by A, Time by Time by A, Time by 1 773 • N°. 3- Watch K. 1773- N°. 3- Watch K. H ' " H ' " H ' " H ' " U May 2 3- 8 21 0 12 58 oi N May 26. 7 2 7 0 12 26 37i ¥ - -4- 8 14 0 12 52 39 % -27. 8 18 0 13 19 26s h - -S- 880 12 48 I2f S-28. 7 48 0 . 12 50 55 O - 16. 7 58 0 .12 39 57 b - 29. 7' 3° 0 12 34 34 5 -- 17- 7 5i 0 12 34 39 i O - 30. 9 57 0 15 3 16L F- 18. 7 44 0 12 29 15 S-31. 7 19 0 12 26 48s S -- 19. 8 35 0 13 21 56 Oct. 12. 300 2 49 244 2; Aug. 5. 8 6 51 5 28 0 J> -- 19. 21 30 0 21 17 91 7?-14. 8 47 ii| 600 D Dec. 14. 20 41 504 20 9 0 It-19. 5 36 47 2 45 0 22. , 19 51 38* 19 15 0 5 Oct. 4. 8 38 52 5 4 0
OBSERVATIONS > OF THE MOON's Distance from the SUN and Fixed STARS, FOR Determining the LONGITUDE at SEA; Made on Board his Majesty's Sloop RESOLUTION, In her late Voyage on Discoveries towards the South. 4 E
I *• t .if f-\ JsV * " ■ s L L- i n K A /*T.B ter! B:m/MU8 s ^ E*- 4X ^ •. "#&■ 4^'' ^ ,4 O'l 'F '4,4;
J 1 O* " O "T* +0 © •0 H °* +0 +0C ON BOARD THE RESOLUTION. 289 Altitude of Distance of the Latitude Longitude H 2; 1772. I IMS by Watch K. the 0's L. L. or *. ivioon s /■iiu- tude. i>'s L. from Q's or *. of the Ship N. West of Greenwich. rr fv i 0 9 0 O Objects. H ' " 0 / 0 / O 0 0 s cr July 21. J 9 57 50 29 5 1 45 3 ° U. 95 21 30 43 4 j 4 9 591 2 I Sand ©: ' Cloudy. 21 50 4 i 49 47 28 44 U. 94 42 36 43 40 9 4 ° i 5 P and 0. 22 18 us 54 25 T 23 7 u. 94 32 5 ° 43 381 9 42 k 3 3 ) and ©. 22. 18 59 48 18 44 t 59 4 u. 84 35 0 42 41s 10 9 l 3 3 > and G . *9 5 34 *9 4 ^t 58 5^4 u. 84 33 50 42 417 9 57 k 3 S and o . - 2Z. i 9 i 7 * 3 * 20 25 t 64 4-4 u. 73 13 54 40 32 11 24I 05k 5 3 ) and 0. Aug. 4 - 3 56 5 °t 48 I^T 44 40 1 u. 72 35 40 28 28-? 17 364 76k 5! 3 ) and ©: Very hazy. - 5 - 4 12 3 1 45 4 Z6 45 u. 85 59 0 27 38s 18 55 k 77k 3 3> and 0. - 7 - Evening. 9 22^- 42 224 u. 112 48 35 23 34 i 19 50 3 3 ) and 0. - 18. 20 IO 45 i 16 564 47 5 u. 114 1 47 10 50 19 16s 80 7 3) and 0 . - 22. 20 6 5°i •9 18^ 77 434 L. 68 32 30 6 57 r 16 4 1 1 80 5 P and©. -- 23 - 20 28 18 2 5 48 76 11 L. 56 16 45 6 29 14 54 78 1 33 and © . 20 50 45 3 1 77 351 L. 56 10 52 6 29 14 59 78 4 3) and © . Sept. 4- 2 36 11 54 42 f 29 5 2 t U. 94 26 42 0 49 9 45 f 6 J) and © . 3 16 46 44 48 38 54 U. 94 42 30 0 49 9 45 k 6 D and ©. - 5 • 3 9 36 46 33 25 i 7 r 107 5 24 0 547 9 491 7 33 and ©. 4 7 16 3 i 58 38 9 f U. J07 27 17 0 547 9 47 i 4 3 ) and ©. 6. 4 9 S8i 3 ° 32? 28 84 u. 119 33 28 0 3 i 8 9 i 8 Sand©: Very Cloudy. - 7 - 7 33 36* 62 59 f u. 52 47 0 t 0 18 7 42 i 4 S & Antares. 8. 8 2 16 43 3*A 59 164 u. 65 26 48 I South. 9 14s 5 S & Antares. -- 12. 9 5 0 76 21 28 244 L. 65 14 20 -f 5 0 14 5 H 9 S Sc a. Aquilae. -7 24 18s 69 51 28 571 L. 62 52 8 r 5 0 14 144 5 S S and Al- debaran. - 17 - 21 24 * 3 i 36 5 °t 22 56 U. no 15 42 12 16k 17 50 14 S and © . - 19 . 20 18 32 *9 3 l 4 5 i 94 u. 87 26 35 15 24 19 54 P & ©: Great •. mot. & hazv. 22 1 39 i 43 47 35 o 4 u. 86 56 47 15 33 20 12 'i P & © : Violent mot. -- 21. 21 3 i 20-f 35 1 84 54 3 if u. 62 26 10 l8 3 ° 2 t 124 10 P and © . - 29. 8 13 47i 55 I It 22 5 i 4 L. 73 37 11 1 7 \ P & as Aquila-, YAry hazy. Oct. I. 3 59 37 i 37 174 73 214 u. 64 11 23 27 29 i? 45 5 ] P & 0 : Rams- den's Quad. 4 4 28 35 594 74 31^ rU. 64 13 15 27 29 17 42 P &©: Mr. Smith's ditto. 4 38 47 i 29 1 79 44 t u. 64 24 15 27 28s 18 3 -I PLW: Mr. Clerke's ditto. 21 26 80 447 u. 64 32 57 27 282 17 14:: P&©: Dol- lond's ditto. - 2 . 3 12 3 6 i 46 34 53 1 3 f u. 76 53 20 27 447 16 39 i 6| 5 and © . -- . 3 - 3 26 3 ° 41 59 45 22 u. 89 29 -1 /i 28 14 j 15 39 4 I 3) and 0 . * - -- 4 4 33 30 5 i 33 56 u. 113 29 59 28 547 11 9 i 14 i 1 p & © : Ve- ; ry uncert.
ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS 250 1772 Time by Watch K. Altitude of the 0's L. L. or * . Moon's Altitude. Distance of ]> 's L. from V's or Star. Latitude of the Ship S. Longitude West of Greenwich. H zr to B 0 2 O b O l Objects, H 0 0 ' Q ' " 1 0 ' O 3 V j - D Oct. 5* 4 9 41! 29 40! 35 04 U. 11 3 32 48 28 547 11 35 5 D and 0 : Less uncert. t> 10. 7 58 581 42 53i'o 27 2 9"4 I 39 29I 0 p and ©. i7 9 5 Zo 49t j 6 39-iVU 112 x 9 44 64 I 39 494 6 p and ©. % 14 17 5° riz 35 6 22 6| U. 98 53 45 63 32| 35 2 3) and ©. 18 8 45 36 55 * 20 25s u. 98 46 35 63 Z2f 39 584 35 6 p and Q : : With a Teles. 18 3° 5° 38 59 r 18 17s u. 98 32 3° 63 32f 38 35 t 35 6 i p and ©: ; Without. ? -- 27. 2Z 48 ni 37 15 f 3 1 45-r U. 53 34 6 56 15 52 50 36 5; ; p and © : ' 1 ollond'sQ. 2 3 57 471 35 59t 3 1 39AU. 53 40 45 56 i4i 5i 74 36 3 P &© ? ? o i 3 0 23 5 2 i 3 2 48 s 3 1 214 U. 53 4 J 39 56 '3° 50 5° 36 5 p & © J s? U Feb. 11. 14 26 10 20 47 t 30 36 u. 118 28 57 52 28s 70 3°i 5 P &© 1/0% 15 18 8 28 42 3 23 194 U. 118 0 55 52 3i4 70 7 5 p & © 5 p- p p and © : lS 39 4 6 i 3 1 394 20 294 u. 3 it U. u 7 50 57 S 2 32s 70 124 5 i Dollond's. p and ©: ? - 12. c 3 45 44 l 5 44f 42 105 20 24 53 34t 72 24 34^ 5 I Ditto. 57 U. IO| p and ©: H 22 5 X 2 1 15 38 105 6 48 53 37i 73 344 5< ; Mr. Clerk's Q.. 34 37t 27 4 i U. 104 22 34 53 434 72 4°4 35 4 P &© 36 *9t 25 1 of U. 104 *5 43 53 434 72 29s 35 3 p & © 5-"-?
ON BOARD THE RESOLUTION, 291 *773 • Time by Watch K. Altitude of the ©•* L. L. or *. Moon's Altitude. Distance of the Moon's L. from Sun or Star. Latitude of the Ship 8. Longitude West of Greenwich Thermom. H ' O 0 O O 0 8 Feb. 17 - 13 43 18 19 36 43 * 7 i L. 40 52 8 57 53 i 83 I 32 -Z 59 5 it 21 49 44 3 i JL. 40 45 49 57 534 83 9 t 32 O March 7. 2 6 9 20 27 20 6| L. 37 3 * 57 t I 2 I 5*4 h -- 13- *3 47 21 32 23t II 84 U. 109 53 40 t- I36 554 1 6. 14 3 8 33 2t 9 *44 u. 109 43 40 t ,36 464 O May 8 -9 47 8 9t 45 33 r L. 50 49 20 4 o 2 54 *73 254 5*4 9 50 45 20 54 t 44 54 L. 50 24 26 4 o 29s *73 34 5*4 & June 8. 22 29 7 70 94 -T" *9 54 ? L. 59 32 8 t 42 2lf *75 3 ° 5*4 L ... 9 9 52 52s 15 43 * 14 564 U. n 4 5 * 37 43 494 *79 404 534 14 5*4 25 33? U. 79 57 11 4 6 8: h -- 12. 9 5 i 59 15 S 2 T 23 404 u. 79 53 4 46 8: 9 59 29 16 24 f 22 33 u. 79 49 58 4 6 8: h *■ - 26. 11 25 53 22 544 16 34 u. 68 6 *5 t *97 2 74 55 D 28. 18 35 37 60 294 47 25s u. 53 14 34 t 198 11I 5 ° 4 $ - 29. 20 57 55 i 72 04 39 '*4 u. 38 12 1 t *99 19I 5*4 s - 30. f 9 44 30 57 2 u. 23 1 28 i 43 84 199 *34 n J^y 1. 19 25 40 61 474 L. 62 28 0 t 43 4 202 *54 '9 4 i 43 i 61 524 L. 37 43 3 ° t 43 4 202 284 r - 2. 4 124- 12 35 AU. 148 5 * 27 43 24 203 **4 0 - 4 - J 7 ii 6 21 94 L. 36 8 19 f 205 *04 484 F - 6 . 6 21 44 * 6 37 7 224 U. *47 24 57 4 * 23 209 4 i 5 * ? - 9 - 6 18 16 8 35 20 44 u. in 26 *5 43 2 7 52 h - 10, 6 44 49 i i 3 8i 18 59 u. 99 53 47 - 43 33 * 216 53 - *9 20^ 8 364 u 99 3 * * 5 '- 43 331 I 18 *74 O - 11. 6 14 37 * 10 37t 26 *94 u. 88 56 42 43 * 7 f 218 38 47 6 S 2 53 *5 20 394 u. 88 ' 45 57 43 *74 219 50 47 3) - 12. 2 4i 45 63 284 33 534 L 6i §2 27 i 22 I **r 46 5 46 59 7 461 3 1 io4 u. 78 6 20 *3 24 2.2 0 24 ? 47 t 6 j 6 \ 6 B and o I and o. Dand Pro- cyon. D and 0 . D and Q. D and o. i and o. D and An- tares. j and o. L and o. 5 ! r and o . 6 I D and o. D and o. 3 > and An- tares. D and An- tares. D and Spi- _ ca "S. [ D and " A quilae: Very cloudy, r r and Spi- 4 j ca 'yr. r r and o : 7 j Back Obs. r D and An* 4 £ tares. ! 0 and 5 : Back Obs. Hazy. 1 I 3) and O . D and O,:: I Dollond'a f L and © : 2 I Ramsden's. c D and o : 9 £ Dollond's. 5 and 0 : Ramsden's. 5 and Fo- l malhaut. /t J and o : 0 I Dollond'sQ. 8 4 F
2Y2 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS 1773- Time by Watch K. Altitude of the 0's L L. or Star. Moon's Altitude, Distance of the 3) 's L. from H or Star. Latitude of tha Ship 8. Longitude East of Greenwich. -4 ST 3 o 2 O o O Objects. H ' " o o o ' " 0 o 3 cr D July 12 . 7 3 3 2 l 7 iS t 2i 59i U. 77 45 2 43 as 221 ISt 474 6' ' 3) and©: ! Ramsden's Q. badly observed. © -- 2 5 - 17 39 16 L 83 4 i 4 26 8 L. 57 i 5 2 t 22 3 J 4 62 v- 26 . 12 2 14 26 42 5 i 574 U- 77 5 i Z 6 28 46 224 57 ? 67 12 27 54 22 41 56 32 U. 78 1 5 ° 28 451 224 28 | 57 9 29 124 41 324 u. 91 2 25 27 5 °i 225 17 69 l 5 54 5 70 2 74 L. -7 10 45 t 27 47 i 225 364 65 i 16 25 53 21 194 66 204 L. 80 52 5 t 224 504 6 L 4 8 - 28 . 12 18 25 25 324 Z 6 384 U. 104 40 32 27 45 224 39 68 % - 29 . 12 5 * 574 12 22 32 20 f U. n 8 15 34 27 26 s 224 25 70 1 ?- 31 -3 47 4 i 9 324 20 594 U. 145 27 8 26 94 225 334 68 15 59 52 79 42 | 49 394 U. 3 ° "7 11 -j- 225 244 674 r Aug. 2 . 19 21 554 68 471 U. 59 i 7 26 t 22 50 226 5 i 69 F- 3 18 28 354 43 52 I. 73 9 38 t 21 48 I 227 Ar t) - 7 - 6 35 12 37 33 4 54 ? u. 1 *9 H 25 : 18 9 i 0 -- 8 . 6 38 574 37 24 15 6 u. ro 8 9 9 *7 447 222 15 3 )- 9 - 6 53 24 38 3 °i 22 3 ° u. 97 3 35 -7 24 i 220 174 8 - 11 . 5 59 10 25 6 49 37 u. 75 19 48 17 I 2 f 216 18 __ iZ. 5 29 214 16 .34 ?2 4'4 u. 53 j 24 t 213 154 78 5 54 40 21 5-4 53 58 s u. 52 55 27 t ZI 3 174 78 14 . 5 37 7 16 274 46 53 L. 4 i 28 19 f 17 437 211 52 77 % Sept. 9 - 6 10 7 48 H u. 83 3 ° 39 1 16 454 208 124 79 6 40 36 43 3 2 s u. 83 23 27 : 16 454 208 297 79 d -- 10. 6 53 54 48 344 u. 72 3 12 - 16 454 208 34 8 o£ 7 15 264 52 384 u. Co 25 39 J 16 254, 207 58s 76 $ - 21 15 3° 294 H 45 75 3 L. 59 53 44 18 29 204 8 8 O I; 15 43 544 11 254 7 1 5 6 t L. 59 57 28 18 29 204 44 8 o| z - 24. 14 9 21 37 324 42 34 LU.' 99 37 8 19 in 199 59 t 744 14 3i 124- 32 34 T 47 0 TJ 99 47 14 *9 331 199 34 744 r d andAnta-' 5 I res: Hazy. c D and ©: 5 [ Dollond'sQ. r i and © : 6 i Ramsden's. 6 j r and ©. .( s and Spi- 6 j catlR. c B and a, & 2 Aquilae. 6 j 3) and©. 0 I Very hazy. r D and © : 8 I Back Obs. , r j and An- 0 I tares, d } and An- 0 i tares. , C d and An- 0 I tares. J) and ©: j> faint. J and ©. J> and © . D and ©: Hazy. 5 and Q D and © 3) and Q : 3> very faint. D&01 J 3)&o/|| 3) & G sis "&0 J ' I )>&©?f- and ©. 3) and © : Cloudy.
ON BOARD THE RESOLUTION, 29 3 1773- Time by Watch K, Altitude o s the N's L. L. or Star. Moon's Altitude. Distance of the J) 's L. from the f£s's or Star. Latitude of the Ship 8. Longitude Fast of Greenwich. H =T r& 5 D 3 No.ofObf. H 0 ' 0 ' 0 ' 0 h Sept. 25. *3 37 39 46 24 t 20 *74 U. 112 11 58 '9 554 I98 04 734 6 S 29. 20 41 4*4 49 2 3t 57 11 L. 5 § 5 ° 22 f I90 *44 67 O Oct. 3 - 21 32 53 70 22 40 f 21 44 *85 z6z 69 21 55 23 54 39 28 f 21 44 185 1 69 'I 6 42 17 12 23 U. 146 24 20 J 21 44 185 64 69 "i v - 4 - 3 23 34 52 rz 4 u. 83 8 52 t 21 44 185 234 654 6 1 3 47 16 50 4 t U. 56 2 8 t 21 44 184 5*4 654 7 8 *34 15 *9t u. *35 14 25 t 21 44 184 54-: 68 "! s - 6. 8 48 23 12 444 U. i*3 0 14 t 21 44 185 207 72 9 9 1 34 46 F IO 44 u. 112 53 25 :: 21 44 184 5 *4 724 9 If *-■' 1 7- 8 59 of 45 19 524 u 101 58 21 22 *7 184 37 734 5 9 22 18s 50 57A 15 11 u. 101 49 35 22 *7 *84 454 734 6 h ■ 9 - 7 43 365 28 3 6 4 47 554 O. 79 53 *7 22 367 183 59 70 6 O ■ ' 10. 9 3* 36 5' 3of 43 18i u. 67 22 *4 23 42 4 182 274 69 6 3) 11. 8 2 43 3° 5°* 52 5*1 L. 55 35 12 25 *84 181 534 694 6 8 1 20. 14 49 27 44 9! 65 6f u. 55 58 21 37 584 *79 49 6i4 6 n ' ' 21. 14 48 52 44 5*i 54 294 u. 69 32 4 39 ioi *78 6 6.37 6 h 2 3 *5 50 33f 34 54i 42 *54 u. 95 5° 0 40 28^ 176 424 58 6 h Dec. 4 - 5 29 37 9 30 24 47-^U. * *9 25 * 6 t 50 4 t 180 22f 45 10 * - 7- 9 23 5° 44 22f 24 18s u. 82 *5 22 55 187 181 304 45 L - 8 . 10 14 5 48 52 r 26 *74 u. 69 11 12 J 182 *14 45 O - 19. 14 49 36 30 3 "i 32 *34 u. 69 12 39 64 494 210 5* 6! r -- 24. 16 9 43 18 11A 8 43-AU. 126 3* 18 67 3 223 04 33 r/74 . L Jan. 5- 49 us 23 542 u. 89 40 *3 52 12 224 45 46 I V 52 *4 20 5* u. 89 29 43 52 12 224 48s 46 2 ' 6. 38 404 43 4 i u. 77 21 22 50 45t 226 35 4 74 3 6 *7 7 42 3<>4 40 324 u. 77 11 55 50 45t 226 3 6 4 474 6 ¥ ' " 1 7- 6 29 *9 46 24 48 *94 u. 63 5* 7 49 i9 228 4/4 47 i 6 8. 6 59 11 §0 27T 45 18 u. 6 3 38 27 49 *7 228 37 474 6 h 5 27 5 2 4 38 354 56 48 i u. 50 42 10 f 232 261 49 6 G - 16. 12 13 42 37 204 38 274 u. 47 *3 8 J 241 94 484 6) $ -- 18. 11 7 44 4i 9 22 *34 u. 70 47 30 J 243 234 4*4 8 I U Feb. 3 4 48 Zd 33 332 21 58s u. 95 56 5* t 2 59 534 344 6 Objects. 3) and o. D and a. Aquilae. J> & Fo- malhaut. D &© : BackObf. D & Fo- D and Pollux. D & O: BackObf. D&0.D. S and o. 5 and ©. 3) and o. D and G. L and o. 3> and 0. 3) and o. 3) and o. D and g : Very hazy, 3 ) and ©: Hazy. 3> and g . 3> and g : Back Cbs. 3) and o. 3) and G . I) &O / 2 3 ) & G ( J- 3> and G. 3) and G. 3> and g . 3) and G: Very hazy. 3 ) and G. 3 > and G. At Tom;atabu, one of the Friendly Isles.
wc°*"0'Cr l -*o^"c 294 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS 1774 - V Feb, O $ March if - Time by Watch K. Altitude of the 0' L. L. or * . Moon's Altitude. Distance of the 2's L. from 0's or *. Latitude of the Ship 8. Longitude East of Greenwich. Thermom. H U O 0 / O ' O 3 - 5 11 18s 35 > 3 i *9 55 i U. 95 46 3 1 t 260 i 5 ? 34 i 4 - 25 2 3 i 36 53 i U. 83 35 22 64 28s 260 28:: 377 18. 10 17 0 38 53 * 23 47 t-s:U. 83 22 50 43 52 f 265 54 * " 9 - 11 47 14 23 54 t 2 7 28| U. 94 48 15 t 264 164 59 20. 10 35 3 i 36 47 t 14 2 7 t u. 105 16 52 39 43 i 264 59 * 66 21. 11 42 20 23 46 s 18 23 u. 116 34 37 37 3 *i 266 * 3 t 2Z- 4 57 23 35 204 L. 3 i '7 33 t 263 58s 664 5 8 451 35 64 L. 48 56 16 f 263 4 °* 66f 27. 5 58 3 i 37 25 L. 22 2 24 f 2 57 46 66, 6 15 9 40 Of L. 3 i 57 59 t 258 17 66z 28. 47 9 40 1 U. i 53 34 37 32 27 i 257 49 ? I. 22 391 15 3444 -u. 140 26 53 31 22 '57 5 8 i 2, 21 27 r 29 294 U. 127 28 42 3 ° 39 * 258 18 3 - '7 25 46 74 u. 114 25 45 30 6t 2 57 597 74 4 - 28 18s 48 33 -rtrU. 100 49 15 29 45 i 259 10 5 - 5 43 48 55 12-j- 32 5°4 U. 86 35 42 f 259 6 6. 45 48s 56 331 u. 73 36 42 28 281 258 31 7 - 6 13 * 7 i 57 2 8i 55 571 u. 59 53 15 t 256 28s 8. 16 2jt t >3 204 L. 47 38 18 27 51 255 0 16. 11 38 51 35 4 i 50 46 U. 4 " 7 i 9 27 7 249 577 - 7 - 27 i6f 48 53 t U. 52 47 59 26 387 248 517 76 18. 39 7 f 45 7 i u. 63 3 i 4 i 26 oi 248 52 | 19. 11 23 32 40 64 39 21? u. 74 32 4 24 4 ii 247 57 i 76 i 35 25! 42 It u. 74 37 46 24 4 i 248 2| 76 i 21. 11 40 17 38 5*4 27 27 u. 96 32 11 20 48 s 246 i6| 30 I 2-A -u. 96 37 3 20 48 246 8f 22. 11 37 20f 40 39 A I 7 54 t u. 107 36 0 l 9 13 245 i 3 75 * 24 22 37 ? 16 35 t U. 130 57 55 16 55 i 77 Objects -r 2 o D and ©. 5 and o: 4? Cloudy, C D and o : ® I Great sea. J I and o: o I Cloudy. [0 I v ando. 8 } v and o. en andjRe- o £ gutus. D and Alde- baran. 2 and Re- gulus. 2 and Spica m. 2 and and o. 2 and©. 3) and o. 3) and ©. 2 and ©. 3) and ©. 3) and ©: Cloudy. 3) and ©. V and ©: 4 ^ Cloudy. 3> and ©. 3> and ©. 2 and ©. 3) and ©. 3> and ©: Back Obs. 7 10 10 10 10 9 8 8 10 6 10 8 10 6 6 10 A There seems to be something amiss in these last observations : they are the first back observations that I have made which did not agree nearly with the others. 1 and Re I gulus. 2 and An- 2 - 28. 19 21 461 • 57 29 L - 44 52 37 + 2 37 287 79 19 40 38 62 24 L. 54 4i 21 f 237 29 79 L-30. 17 424 17 22-4 U. >44 23 26 9 184 232 23 80 A e> 3> S tares. 10 2 and © : Back Obs.
ON BOARD THE RESOLUTION. 295 *77 4 . U March 31 ? April I. h -- 2. O -- 3* F - 5- s- 6. ? - *5- Q ■--- *7- P - 18. $ -- 19. O May *5- p - 16. F -- *7- S - 18. It - *9 20. o - 29. " -3°' -5 -3*- S June 1. it - 2. ? - Z- 1} --- 4. r -*3- F - 14 . Time by Watch K. Altitude of the ©'s L. L. Or . Moon '3 Altitude. Distance of the P's L. from 0 's or Star. Latitude of the Ship 8 . Longitude East of Greenwich, Thermom. H 6 ' 0 0 / " 0 O * 25 2 t 23 53 U. 130 3 * 5 9 27 J 230 8 8 of 20 26 s 4 * 494 u. 117 2 1 9 28 | 228 42 794 *7 23 t S 8 87 u. 103 33 1 9 3*4 227 *55 8 l 20 85 68 37 1 u. 90 6 32 9 32 f 225 2 of- 8 l 4 41 § 7 ^ 74 **T u. 63 20 16 9 2 of 222 **4 82 16 54 r 67 2 lf L. 5 * 1 16 9 38 221 26 s 774 14 2 4 * 3 1 9 t 57 52 f U. 44 5 1 38 *3 534 217 24 824 3 " 49 3 2 t u. 66 44 16 14 28 s 215 *45 14 47 1 of 22 43 t 56 46 u. 67 0 20 14 294 215 8 *3 4 o 3 8 37 354 42 8 f u. 77 46 1 *5 5 i 214 18 25 * 5 f 43 4*4 u. 89 8 52 -5 41 s 213 *45 8 x 5 *5 3 23 20 38 s 53 22 s L. 48 10 56 16 42 t 209 9 t% 83 14 9 4 1 3 i 2 7 r 58 58 27 16 424 209 204 844 *7 57 50 37 55 f L. 3 * 32 16 f 16 424 81 *5 *9 56 *7 70 20 34 16 424 209 384 8 Z 18 24 23 s 52 23 'Af-'' 60 36 18 f 16 424 209 374 81 *5 6 38 s *9 434 93 H 3 ,6 424 209 *7 8 xi 18 39 20 59 *95 L. 47 57 3 t 16 424 209 435 8 of *5 1 35 20 435 105 9 5 16 424 2 o 8 274 824 l 5 14 56 s *7 56 s 105 1 3 12 16 424 208 384 824 *7 42 53 35 *9 4 t 16 424 208 474 804 *5 *5 5 * *7 44 5 117 32 *3 *7 424 208 574 83 7 48 2 £f 22 5 6 f *7 424 208 3*5 8 x 5 4 [6 * 3 f 16 *74 72 o 4 U. 57 5 28 t 16 454 208 22 f 75 48 64 * 26 571 u. 123 *5 49 16 45 f 2 O 7 59 A 78 55 484 * 34 184 u. 109 5 * 16 16 454 20 7 57 tV 794 58 5 * 4 * 43 344 u. 96 55 29 16 454 20 7 5 °t 80 46 68 31 * 47 3 ° I u 84 *7 45 16 454 208 1 of 78 s 7 25 64 54 u. 72 22 55 t 16 454 208 *85 78 s 8 2 16 61 52 s u. 72 18 20 t 16 454 208 *84 78 s 8 54 354 u. 60 9 35 t 16 454 208 x 2 f 81 12 3 3 ° 34 t 6 Z 30 A -L. 48 52 28 16 444 207 2 2 t L 825 *5 4 f 33 20 I 2 f 52 22 L. 4 * *5 45 18 46 s 197 494 77 i *5 57 57 i 7 Ot-st 50 5 * L. 4 * 20 18 18 464 197 444 77 f 2 49 1 7 13 ° 45 t 54 544 L. 52 12 35 t 197 So 7 64 10 xo 10 10 10 5 6 8 10 10 6 6 10 0 D and O : BackObs. I and ©. r and 0 . p and o. H and 0 . 5 and o. P and o. 5 and o. p and G. p and o. p and o. P &© P & © p and 8 ; Regul. P &© V P and ll Spica'tE p 8co p and Spica 'N 3 5 &© 5 P &© J P and ^ t Spica M 8 ] j &o r p and 9 J Spica f 3) and 1 = 10 i Antares. c P Lc©: 4 B ckObs. D&O D&O P &© ^ p &o p &o p &o p and o. P & O ( 3 P &Q J 4 10 p and o - 10 10 6 2 6 10 10 3 8 * These are double altitudes of the o's L. L, taken with Hadley's Sextant from a quicksilver horizon. 4 G harboi
296 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS Time by WWh K. Altitude ot Distance of J) 's Latitude Longitude H Z the ©'s L. from ©'sor of the East of 3 £ Objects, 1774 - L. L . or sft . Star. Ship S. Greenwich. 3 n H ' O 0 ' 0 0 ' 0 3 cr $ June 14. 18 23 r 3 69 54 38 484 L. 64 7 *4 t 198 3 757 10 [ v and Spica I n. 8 -:- i 5 - 14 43 8 32 4 t 5 i 34 f u. 63 3 1 56 t 1 97 51 75 10 1 j> and 0. 18 38 33 i 72 55 r 46 361 L. 5 1 43 42 f 197 5 ° 744 10 f D and Spica if . 16. 14 40 14 33 oi 45 64 u. 75 6 44 t 197 447 75 t 10 j D and 0. • 18 31 52s 72 14i 58 354 L. 39 rz 35 t 197 5*4 744 8 V D and Spica I n. ? -- - 7 - 15 14 5 ° 28 7 t 43 21J U. 87 XZ 6 18 5 196 51 744 6 f i and © : I Doll. 15 25 5 i 26 45 41 u. 87 17 40 18 5 i 95 38 744 6 C D and 0: t Rams. 18 48 3 75 2x7 66 37t L. 26 18 15 + r 95 55 i 73 7 s D and Spica 1 m. O - 19. 16 23 46 '7 * 5 t 37 377 U. 112 20 27 18 274 192 5 - 76 7 f D and 0 : t Very hazy. r8 55 53 36 4 ii 70 46s u. 45 24 41 t 192 28 75 10 C D and An- l tares. V .- 20. 17 5 49 9 56^ 34 53 i U. 126 5 46 (8 59 190 3°4 764 10 ? D and 0 : d Back Obf. -- 21. 19 5 i 56 80 56 ^ 60 47 i U. 3 1 20 0 f 190 33 79 6 S 5 and Spica I 20 3 47 5 1 46 63 294 u. i 7 53 2 f 190 10 79 6 f D and An- d tares. S - 22. 22 31 19 48 55 i 83 744 U. 47 23 28 f 189 41 76 6 J D and Spica I N. 23 5 Zr 36 327 88 6 U. 53 40 45 t 189 11 76 6 f 5 and * d Aquilae. % - 2Z- 7 54 53 79 57t Zr 464 L. 61 35 21 1 188 16 76-3- 10 s 5 and Spi- d ca. O - 26. 8 28 * 3 i 12 x°r r 9 454 U- 140 34 4 i 20 15 185 46 74 i 9 t D and © : d Back Obf. r - 27. 8 54 49 t 17 217 25 9 U. 126 58 44 20 J 5 184 50: : 10 d i and © : I Ditto. F -... . " 28. l8 18| 34 3°t U * 113 59 5 i 20 13 185 74 744 10 j 5 and 0. 33 3 i r 5 294 u. XX 3 22 18 20 12 185 24 77 10 j s and © . 8 - 29. 3 36 4 i 2 7 24 72 257 L- 61 30 17 t x8 5 424 74 i 6 j j and * ) Aquilae. r July I 17 19 35 21 514 53 53tVU. 77 22 35 20 04 182 44 72 8 f D and © : I Doll. Q. 7 29 28 23 384 52 rz 4 U. 77 20 54 20 ot 182 21 72 10 t 5 and © : I Rams. T? 2 4 14 4 i 69 164 47 11 L. 63 38 34 : 181 494 7 1 8 s 5 and Fo- l malhaut. 6 54 *9 16 45 59 47 U. 67 0 37 l 9 45 181 464 72 6 J D and © : [ Doll. Q. . 1
ON BOARD THE RESOLUTION 297 * 774 - Time by Watch K. Altitude of the G's L. L. Moon's .Altitude. Distance Moon's L. from Sun's or Star. Latitude of the Shin S. Longitude East of Greenwich. H " O ' 0 0 ' " O / 0 ' h July 2. 7 * 39 18 gi 59 *74 U 66 29 24 '9 45 * 8 * 59 k 8 13 1 3 * 5 i 50 281 U 65 41 47 *9 45 s 182 i8| G-3. 7 ii 2 19 29I 56 544 L 54 42 7 *9 S 8 ; 181 49J 7 *6 50 20 35 i 56 494 L. 54 40 48 *9 5 8 t 181 472 8 31 36 33 4044 51 46s U. 54 23 19 20 1 182 51 D - 4. 6 Z8 Z8i 12 44 +8 50 L. 43 43 7 20 34-J 180 42 \ 6 46 46 *3 364 49 40 L. 43 42 8| 20 341 181 32 s -13. 28 491 65 94 L. 46 57 35 -6 20i [73 IOf 27 224 65 04 L 47 0 10 16 202 *72 5*1 6 12 8 76 5 i 34 154 L. 4 * 38 58 4 *73 35 V - 14 - 14 34 4 * 33 8 A 65 204 U. 58 40 22 *5 33 172 18 14 41 13s 3 * 56-A 66 13! U. 58 42 21 *5 33 172 12 ? -- 15. 15 21 13I 25 374 67 584 u. 70 57 24 *5 9 t * 7 ° 55 ? l 5 26 55 24 294 68 58 U. 70 59 20 *5 9 t * 7 ° 5*1 *8 45 53 64 261 53 2 1§ L. 6* 53 34 t 171 142 tz-20. [8 48 51 66 20 58 144 U. 55 37 59 t 168 36 19 3 4 § *7 28 tV 61 45 u. 46 5 o 50 t *68 24 it-21. 20 49 42 36 394 T. 49 534 T. 7 * 33 5 1 16 23d. 167 402 ?-22. 18 56 16 4 ° 48 55 J t6 25I *68 25 h-23. 18 39 X 67 4^fT. 14 291 T. 55 56 46 f *6 33^ *68 17I ; $ -- 26. 22 274 *4 124 U. 13* 44 56 *7 53 i *69 33 ? / S -27. 22 2L4 23 48s u. **9 11 55 I 8 25 y *69 3 *i 7 4 i I N co 7 37 3 8 16 40 38 571 U. *°7 *3 53 18 27 170 3 7 72 7 2 l 75 k 75 k 751 75 75 76s 76 751 771 77i 79 79 7"i 74f 741 74 75 I Z Objects. j 3> and o : 6 I Rams. Q. J D and o : 6 i Mr.CIerke'sQ. j D and O : 6 iDol.Q. J 3) and Q : 0 1 Rams. s 3) and©: ° I Mr.CIerke'sQ. r 3) and ©: 6 *Dol. Q. c 3) and © : 6 r Rams. Q. ,t i and © : 6 I vol. Q. .1 I and © : 6 1 Rams. Q. f rand 0 I Spica "}i. 6 D and ©: 7°l Dol. Q. r D and © : 4 j Rams. r 3) and © : 6 r Dol. Q. r v and © : 4 I Rams. Q^ I and An- O {tare3. 3>and 0 I Spica W. - C I) and " 8 I Aquisae. s r and 12 I Spica . C D and An- 0 I tares, r D and An- 7 | tares. r 3) and©: 10 j Back Obs. 4.| ©and©, o c D and © : ° i Dol. Q.
2g8 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS 1774. Time by Watch K. Altitude of the ©'" L. L. Moon's Altitude. Distance Moon's L. from Sun's or Star. Latitude of the Ship 8. Longitude East of Greenwich. H tf 3 z p 0 0 Objects, H ' " O ' 0 O ' " 0 ' 0 3 CT" n July 28. 7 45 28 18 19 37 21 U. 107 ii 43 18 27 I7O 13 70-4 8 ; v and 0: Rams. 1 and 0: h ■- 30. 7 40 48 17 io; 5 i 37 u - 83 53 59 18 23 168 454. 73 i 6 \ c Vol. D and 0: 7 46 45 18 26^ 50 43; U. 83 54 H 18 23 170 I 4 i 73 ? 3 i Rams. Q. " and 0: 7 59 22 21 1^ 48 39;u. 83 5 i *4 18 23 169 43 73 ? n 8 ; Rams. Q. r > and 0 : 9 56 20 42 46^. 25 53 t 83 H 8 18 22 168 38 76 6 [Dol. r ]> and 0 : 0 -- 31. 8 37 10 28 Z24 47 5 6 £ U. 72 25 51 18 244 168 41^ 7 Si 8 [Dob Q. 1 B and 0 : 8 42 55 29 394 47 Si u - 72 26 8 18 244 169 34 75 i st 8 [ Rams. r b and©: ii 20 15 52 2^ 16 49^ U. 71 36 55 18 304 169 43 74 I Rams. Qi r B and 0 : 11 23 6i 53 " 3 L 16 15 U. 7 1 34 33 18 304 169 2-4 74 I 3 > vol. Q. D Aug. 1. The disag with dif happens fineness whatsoe before t adjusted sible to reement in brent <)ua rd. I was of the w" ver confpi he two las in every f be, that t the results drams, is es determiner rather, the ring to give t Observatit -articular, v lerewas not of Observatic .traordinary in 1 bow, if pofli stillness of thi me an advai )ns of each da /ith the utrnoll hing amiss in t ns mad< deed ! n ole, to 2 ship, itaeeouj y, the C care, a :ither of ; this day or is it the dnd out tl and every opportun Quadrants nd I am as them. and first te ca oth< ity. were cert the day before, time that it has use of it; the ;r circumstance Accordingly, examined and ain as it is pof- _ e and 0 : 8 51 25-i 3 * 3 50 14-4 U. 61 18 47 18 45 r 168 50s 76 8 | Dol. Q, r b and 0 : 8 58 4 32 194 49 2 Sr U. 61 18 17 i8 45 169 24-4 76 8 | Rams. t B and 0 : & -- 2. 8 42 38 29 52 52 3 °t L - 50 21 Z4 18 38 169 IO| 73 8 j vol. Q. 8 5 1 40 3 1 3 6 * 52 2| L. 50 20 12 18 38 169 26! 73 8 r b and 0 : I Rams. Q; r B and Al- 8 - 3 5 35 0 45 54 ? 25 5244 L. 24 19 i ? i 18 434 168 46^ 70I 6 £ debaran. 8 io 35 23 24-rV 49 344 L- 39 3 1 4 18 43 v 169 8-4 74 i 6 - B and © : 1 vol. QL r B and 0 : 8 18 10 24 57 t 50 54 L. 39 29 22 18 4 3i 169 22f 74 1 6 | Rams. Ch r b and An- 0 - 21. 21 54 29 38 55 t 62 T. 79 40 45 t 19 41 170 5 ? 6gl 6 [ tares. B and Al- u -25. 3 42 7 4 i 3 ^T. 67 53 i L - 4 i 59 " t 15 2 166 44b D 8 | debaran.
ON BOARD THE RESOLUTION. 299 Time by Watch K. Altitude of the 0's Moon's Altitude. Distance of J's L. from Sun's Latitude of the Longitude East of ' 2 0 ' 2 O Objects. 1774. L. L. or Star. Ship S, Greenwich. 5 -n Q H ' " O ' 0 O ' " a 0 ' s cr ^ 1 U Aug. 25 7 5 2 49 21 39 t 126 8 35 x 5 64 761 6 i D and ©: Back Obs. ? -26. 4 *5 i 4 48 24 T. 64 35 i L. 28 54 45 : l 4 474 167 I 9 | 74 s ) 5 and Al- debaran. 4 28 50 26 5 ifT. 64 14s L. 52 7 5 1 14 474 166 33I 74 t J and* ° 1 Pegail. 7 25 12 x 5 2444 37 224 T. 61 2i| L. 114 28 48 14 45 167 20L 74 i i°[ r D and © . i and Pol- J?-- 27 4 47 29 12 9fT. 5 ° 32 6 H 14 47 l66 31-4 74 f 6 \ lux. 4 57 57 *9 434 - 1 '- 61 284 L. 63 42 58 ; 14 47 167 44| 74 i 6 \ D and * Pegasi. 167 124 784 r and © : 7 43 n 19 224 41 304 U. 102 52 52 *4 474 6 i Dol. Q. 7 49 39 167 214 78 - - c T> and ©: 20 52 . 40 174 U. 102 51 11 14 47 i 6 \ Rams. Qb OO M I I 0 7 50 37 21 7 t 47 8 | 17 . 9 i 34 3 1 14 574 166 47s 78 -! 5 and ©: Dol. 7 56 58I 22 374 46 2 J U. 9 X 33 5 r 4 57 ° 166 51s 78 5 and ©: Rams. Q. 5 -■ . 29. 10 48 18 58 8.4 20 394 u: 79 37 2 f 165 44 £: 79 D and © : Dol. 10 55 9 59 ii 19 It's u. 79 35 43 t 166 264 79 6 l 5 and ©: Rams. Q. 0* I [ Co 0 4 36 56 52 424 36 57 T. 20 7 22 J x 5 44 167 124 75^ 6 ' 4 v and Al- debaran. 11 33 47 6 3 53 4 20 184 u. 63 26 3 4 166 23 77 5 and © : Dol. 11 45 8 64 38-4 18 55 u. 68 22 53 -f- 166 50- 77 'i D and ©: Rams. Q. L - 31. 4 46 33 53 564 29 134 L. 32 3 26 j 166 33 y\ i and Al- debaran. 9 52 17 47 3c>4 47 22i U. 57 58 45 16 274 16 5 45 76-z 6 i 3) and ©: Dol. Q. 9 57 43 48 33 i 46 354 U. 57 58 3 2 16 274 166 29I 76-5 5 and ©: Rams. 10 2 33 49 3 X 4 45 554 U. 57 57 0 16 274 166 iii 764 , r D and 0 : 6 I Dol. Q. $ Sept. 13. x 5 13 x 3 40 404 48 7iU- 89 15 32 x 9 47 164 13I 77 os v and O : 8 I ditto. 15 20 244 39 64 49 484 U 89 18 30 19 47 164 el 77 c Dand 0 : ro ^ Rams. CL , § -- 14- 16 26 58 24 44 t 51 264 U ioz § 58 19 18 163 46 79 A 3) and© : ^ j Dol. Q. 16 33 6 23 214 52 524 u 103 9 15 19 1 8 [63 2 4 J. ?9 r ]) and 0 : 8 l Rams. Q. i , I 4 H
300 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS 1774. Time by Watch K. Altitude of the 0's L. L. Moon's Altitude. Diitance of the v's L. from 0's or *. Latitude of the Ship S. Longitude East of Greenwich. H sr n § O 2! p 0 n Objects. H 0 ' O * O " 0 O / 3 cr 1--- ij U. 46 r r and 0 : Of. Sept. 15. l 5 20 11 39 4 8 4 23 Il6 4 *9 18 163 33} 83 4 ) vol. Q. 134 u. r r and 0 : 15 25 37 38 364 24 116 6 11 l 9 I 7 i i 6 3 534 83 7 } Rams. Q. 234 U. Il6 83 r 5 and 0 : 15 30 48 37 2 7 t 25 9 2 19 *74 ivz 434 5 r voi. q. D TT- X 9 . 0 42 39 l 5 474 68 44 L. 57 6 25 t 166 6f 724 6 r L and " 1 Aquilae. 47 4 r 3) and ". I 3 48 43 I 2 4 t - 65 8 i L. 45 20 20 25! 165 33s 724 6 1 Arietis. 69 9 4 166 r Dand " $ - 20. 0 40 52 14 544 68 471 L. 5 1 20f 7'4 6 / Aquilae. 62 I j) and Al- I 0 6 24 24 68 3 L. 4 27 t 165 37 7 i 4 6 I debaran. 166 7 0 72 10 £gasi: Hazy. s - 28. 9 6 8 42 16 38 274 u. 77 5 i 28 4 167 484 73 6 r D and 0 : 1 vol. Qi 9 11 47 i 43 28 37 384 U. ' 77 49 50 4 167 474 73 6 c 5 and 0 : 1 Rams. 167 694 s r and Al- u 29. 3 56 13* 5 i 34 t 22 374 L - 5 i 21 41 + J 74 6 I debaran. 67 167 J r and 0 : 7 41 35 23 2ZT 5° 30 u. 8 45 + 134 72 6 r voi. t r and 0 : ; 7 47 38 24 46 s 5 ° 284 U. 67 8 3 t 167 36 72 6 | Rams. 1
ON BOARD THE RESOLUTION 301 *774 Time by Watch K. Altitude of the S's L. L. Moon's Altitude. Distance of 5 's L. from Sun's or Star. Latitude of the Ship 8. Longitude East of Greenwich. rr 0 3 z p 0 "*> 0 ■Objects. H // 0 O O ' " 0 0 ' 1 cr '-- - U Sept. 29. 11 *5 59 66 52t 25 29s u. 66 10 jo f i6 7 35i 73 5 ; 3) and© : Bird's Q. II 29 54 68 22| 22 47? U. 66 3 25 f 167 I oz 73 6 i 3) and © : Mr. Smith's Q. II 35 1 68 49r 22 48s U. 66 2 13 f 167 17; 73 s ! " and 0 : Mr. Clerke's. h Oct. 1 . 7 12 36 18 52 44 36 L- 44 40 59 23 *71 169 32^ 66 6- , 3) and © : I Dol. Qh - 7 21 36 20 53t 45 52 T L. 44 39 24 23 *7? 169 581 66 6 ! ' 3> and © ! Rams. 8. T 9 0 38 52 44 20 39 t L- 70 0 38 t 17° 52 63? 10 l and " . Aquilae. O - 9 * 14 42 50 44 224 76 84 U. 45 28 31 28 55 168 514 62 z 6 | 3) and © : { Dol. Q. *4 49 26 42 55 t 76 344 U. 45 3 ° 38 28 55 168 48 622 6 ■ 3) and © : ! Rams. Q. *5 16 * 5 i 37 27 75 43 t U. 45 39 48 28 55 168 41 § 62s 6 3) and ©: 1 Bird's 11 7 * 5 ? 64 I 3 r 24 20 U. 57 26 36 f 168 2lf 6 3 ? 1 J D and ©: [ Dol. Q. D 10. 16 30 18 22 3 6 ! 76 4i| L. 59 29 37 29 0 168 6\ 8 ; 3) and © : ! Rams. CL $ - 11. *4 5* 34 43 48| 59 36s u. 72 24- 0 29 29 167 374 644 6 ' D and © : Dol. f 4 59 2 42 * 4 t 61 54 U. 72 26 45 29 29 *67 35 ? 644 8 i 3) and © : Rams. Q. L - 12. *5 16 *5 38 3*f 5* 58s u. 85 54 47 3 1 *7? 167 36 654 8 ! D and © : Dol. Q. *5 25 54 36 26s 53 564 U. 85 58 34 3 l *71 167 29 654 "i 3) and © : Rams. is - *3- 15 46 *5 3* 34 45 59 U. 99 21 50 33 4r 166 i8| 63 6 S 3> and ©: Dol. Q. '5 52 37 30 j 4 t 47 14! u. 99 24 46 33 44 168 8| 63 D and ©: Rams. Q. *9 6 1 9 36 3 6 T 73 344 U. 54 49 33 t 168 50| 62 6 S D and An- tares. *9 22 40 32 5*4 72 284 u. 50 36 8 + 168 42I 62 4 3 ) and"Pe-, gasi. . ? - ■■" ■ *4 16 3 l 26 21 * 7 t 43 164 U. 112 48 7 34 21 1 69 29 622 6 | 3 ) and © : f Dol. Q. 16 36 *4 20 1 6 4- 44 12 u. 112 49 25 34 21 69 43 ? 6z\ 6 { 3> and © : , Rams. CL '9 46 20 26 55 t 69 354 U. 69 0 34 f 17° 17 614 4 3) and An- ' tares: cloudy. •9 54 32 36 364 69 271 u. 37 59 37 % t *68 5,74 614 l I 3> and a Pe- gasucloudy.
302 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS 1774- Time by Watch K. Altitude of the 0's L.L. Moon's Altitude. Distance of the Moon's L. from Sun's or Star. Latitude of the Ship S. Longitude Eail of Greenwich. Thermom. H " O * 0 * 0 * 0 0 S Nov. ii. 14 18 8f 47 944 31 35t U. 94 27 IO 42 2 24 '74 5it 62 14 23 3i 46 I2f 32 304 U. 94 29 IO 42 224 175 31 62 T} - 12. i5 45 3 31 144 34 484 U. 107 48 49 43 27 '75 424 64 15 50 35 3° 1 3 To 35 414 u. 107 50 5i 43 27 175 5°i 64 $ Dec. 6. 6 8 16 58 33s 33 44 U. 45 9 48 t 251 574 46 6 14 9 58 434 34 334 U. 45 12 3i t 251 32 46 S - 7- 10 4 26 40 134 53 17s L - 46 53 12 53 2 Of 252 284 48 10 7 59 39 I It 53 10 L. 46 55 0 53 20 J 252 244 48 6 25 25 58 5944 27 23 s U. 58 52 48 f 254 32 47 v - 12. 8 43 40 43 46 12 3 st u. no 33 15 53 22f 267 45f 47 8 5 2 48s 42 2 7i i3 5'i U. no 37 7 53 22f 268 34 47 29 2 3 24 251 u. in i5 15 53 22-4 268 I4i 464 '5 4i 46 19 20tT. 24 57t L. 52 43 57 + 53 22 268 19 43 3 *3- *5 46 22 i9 53 T. 23 5 8| L. 39 54 3 1 + 53 24 271 114 43 1 775- S Jan. 6 . 6 53 56 38 294 40 25A-U. 52 30 2 5 t 305 34i 43 7 2 46 b 37 25? 40 22z u. 52 33 10 t 3 °5 584 43 b - /• 5 49 38 b 4 6 15 33 34 u. 65 IO 50 t 306 554 43 5 57 22 45 2 3t 33 354 U. 65 15 15 $ 306 23 43 Q - -- 8. 5 38 5 2 47 494 2 5 147 U. 77 47 481 308 24 49 5 44 25 47 8 A 2 5 464 U. 77 50 34 t 3°7 49? 49 13 4 23 18 38L 11 co 57 48 4 + 3°7 584 45 Objects. 7 6 '1 6 6 6 2 6 8 8 4 io 6 71 8 6 \ 6 6 r and o Dol.Q, r and o: Rams. Q. 3 ) and ©: Dol. Q, i and ©: Rams. Q. D and ©: Dol. Q. D and ©: Rams. Q, 5 and ©. Dol. Q, 3) and ©: Rams. Q. v and © : Dol. Q, 3) and ©: ditto. D and ©: Rams. Q, 3) and ©: Dol. Q, 3) and Al- debaran. 3> and ditto. 3) and ©: Rams. Qj . Hazy. 3) and ©: Dol. Qj Hazy. 3) and © Dol. Q, 3) and © : Rams. Q. 3 > and © : Dol.Q, 3) and © : Rams. Q, 3) and Al- debaran.
ON BOARD THE RESOLUTION, ZvZ Time by Watch K. Altitude of Distance of the Latitude Longitude H 25 , the O's I'sL. from E's of the East of * o Objects. -775' L. L. or Star. Ship S. Greenwich. i Q H ' " 0 " O ' 0 ' O ' 0 ' ? cr " r and 0: L Jaiu 25. 16 52s 42 55 tVL 82 54 27 57 7 329 13 43 6- Dol. Hazy. D and O : 2 3 17 53 40 47A 32 54i U. 81 40 24 4 329 154 42i 4 ditto, and very hazy. r j and 0 : 23 32 2 42 17A 31 2 si- u. 81 34 8 | 329 12 42 i 4. Rams. very hazy. Repeated a day, and rejected 360° of Longituc e. - r- 1 and Re- g Feb. 17. 9 44 Ui *9 3*4T. 17 304 L. 28 27 10 f 54 23! 8 234 33i 5- ■ eulus: Dol. - j and Re- 9 54 51 20 8{T. 18 454 L. 28 29 52 -■ 54 23! 9 174 333 5' gulus: Rams D and 10 518 20 57 tT. 19 564 L. 25 55 43 t 54 23L 9 4°i 33i 5 • Spica *R : Rams Q. J D and -0 13 43 22 0 T. 20 51 t vl. 25 5r 56 f 54 23I 9 404 33? 6. > Spica M: | ( f Dol. OT D and 0 : J F - 21. *7 49 43 18 16 ig -7 544 40 28 u. 102 40 9 J 2i 5*i 35 * s Dol. 1 verycloudy.l D and G: f 21 43 37 44 U. 102 28 39 55 4 21 224 35 3 i Dol. Qj_ I verycloudy.l 18 21 48s f 3 ) and g : 1 22 24^- 37 7 U. 102 26 50 55 4 21 274 35 1 Rams r verycloudy.l if. Feb. 23. 19 22 52 19 39 271 33 23-rV 37 3644 45 364 U 76 15 5- 53 5i 2 5 5o 38 3 > and G : ( cloudy. ■ I) and g : fr 'j - OJ I 1 0+ 51 424 U. 50 37 t U. 62 47 25 f 62 41 18 f 28 21 38| 6^ s Dol Q. I hazy. I Dando: j l 9 49 39 19 28 31s, 39 5 2 t 27 324 ;8i 5 i r Rams. j hazy. | D and 0: j 37 434 U. *0 1 1 37 i 7 i 49 8 20 i 1-9 3 2 i 29 2 54 1-2 6 i r Dol. j cloudy. j 5 and g : 1 ,6 39 4 U. [ 9 45 24 39 2 4i 49 1 57 < 1-9 3*4 29 3 8 i 4 5 2 6 ) Rams. Q. j ^ March 4 . 1 45 5i 50 1 - 34 59 58 4 1-3 49i 7 L 3 i cloudy. [ D and g. J 4l
ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS 3°4 1775 - Time by Watch K. Altitude of the K'° L. L. Moon's Altitude. Distance of the P 's L. from 0 's or *. Latitude of the Ship 8 . Longitude East of Greenwich. Thermom. No. of Obf J H O O ' 0 / " 0 O ' p March 6. o 58 42 38 5 -r 33 24 U. 59 38 45 f 27 10 r 54 6 I 7 35 37 29 33 53 U. 59 42 151 26 54 l 54 2 $ - 7 - . i 28 27s 34 284 29 334 U - 7 1 37 8 41 48 t 26 i 4 i 6o| 2 % - 9 - 6 0 Zr 26 134 L- 6i 53 3 1 t 25 3 at 55 4 r- IO. i 55 25 3 1 5 \ 11 5 2 t U. 105 19 35 40 50 23 4 °t 52s 5 i 58 43 3 ° 3°tV 12 204 U. I0 5 2i 15 40 50 5 2 i 2 2 26 6 *5 42 1 16 34 U. 105 3 ° 5 i 40 49 f 2Z 47 52 i 10 6 *5 24 28 53 t V 30 15 5 ° 40 45 i 5 i 1 it - 16. 7 54 14 27 3*4 36 114 L. 30 48 45 + 22 i8i 67 6 8 9 18 41 Hi 38 261 L. 23 36 52 f 22 I2f 67 6 5 - * 7 - 8 50 54 39 if 40 3 l f L- *7 41 35 t 20 I* 67 6 8 57 43 i 42 21 4 1 334 L - 37 10 30 f 21 l6 67 2 8 May 3 - 20 4 i 42 5°4 U. 44 11 4 26 51 6 191 684 8 6 22 49 37t *9 554 I-*- 58 34 25 f 7 3 1 67s 8 i - 4 - o 30 20 45 3 °i 26 391 u - 54 40 13 4 5 52 * 67 6 2 16 56 32 334 40 33 U. 55 8 40 J 5 59 * 67s 10 6 10 o-l 49 26| 30 44 i L. 46 28 21 f 6 50 67 7 Q - - 7 - 25 56 i 33 26z u. 88 20 58 23 16 3 194 664 8 4 32 2 54 10 47 45 13 u. 88 40 7 t 3 I Ot 664 8 6 r 7 44 33 284 5 1 3*4 L - 64 19 3 ° t 3 Hi 66 8 p - 8. 3 30 40 v 24 57 t 28 564 u. 99 26 10 j; 1 50 * 67! 8 - 6 34 35 i 36 47 t 55 5°4 U. 52 14 57 t 1 54 664 9 West. ' <?- §. 3 50 444 22 181 24 47 i U. I LO 43 45 20 34i 0 18 6-4 8 East. 6 35 28s 36 39 t 55 SOi U 40 7 2 f 0 37 684 10 West. U - ii. 5 15 39 7 33 t 25 14I U. 134 15 48 t 2 54 : 694 LO Objects. P and©: vol. Q. P and ©: Rams. P and ©. P and Re- gulus. P and ©: Dol. Q. P and ©: Rams p and ©: ditto. D and Al- debaran: Cloudy. P and Spi- calvr. 3) and Re- gulus. P and Spi- ca n. D and Re- gulus. Pand ©. 1 p and Re- gulus. P and ©. p and ©. p and Re- gulus. p and ©. p and ©. P and Spi- ca m. P and ©. p and Spi- ca p and ©. p and Spi- ca W. p and ©: Back Obf.
ON BOARD THE RESOLUTION. 3°5 -775' ■4 May II. 7 33 26 7 4i 21 7 5° 5 i r - 12. 7 Z6 5 ° 7 47 57 0- 14 10 20 59 0 - 21. 21 54 4i D - 22. 21 45 3° F -- 23- 20 7 40I S- 24 20 31 3 1 ■y June 1. 3 40 8 20 26 ? - 2. 3 44 47 8 1 5 52 t?-- 3- 3 4i 54 3 50 22 £ 8 28 42f © -- 4 4 33 34 8 33 35 D - 5• 4 J 7 24 8 36 *7i $ - 6. 4 45 27 4 5i 53f Time by Watch K. H ' 8 . 8 54 33 5 Q 9 -4 5 -9 9 20 46 3 , -3 50 Altitude os Distance Moon's Latitude Lonjiiride H 2$ the 0's L. from Sun's of the West of o" O L. L. or Star. Ship 8 Greenwich. | ■ Q Objects. O * O O * " 0 ' 0 ' a cr 57 324 u. 39 43 26 t .. r D and Re* I It 55 2 5i 69 b | gulus. 51 50 t 57 I2f U. 15 20 4 f I 44 f 69 6 D and Spica 15 ->4 58 474 U* 60 35 46 t 2 "T 69 6 ; D and An- 1 tares. I2f 54i U 52 55 24 t 69 D and Re- 57 47 2 14 6 1 gulus. r 1) and An- 254 U. 69 *5 I? 50 47 43 4 + 2 27 t 0 I tares. 83 22 \ 63 5? L. 28 28 30 f 4 20 70 i .. r D and 0 7 Spica n. Z6 45 i 48 45 r U 85 36 58 -4 7 IO£ 70 6 3) and 0: very cloudy 34 i9i 6Z 174 u. 72 z6 45 |"4 43 8 234 73s 8 Land G : 1 cloudy. 13 4 t 72 484 L. 60 12 5 i 13 45 9 431 7 2 i 10 r and 0. *7 42 t 65 164 L. 47 25 8 12 6 \ 11 2 1 7 2i 10 D and ©. 43 45? 6 3 124 L. 36 43 50 t 15 44-4 79 10 D and 0. 57 5iV 20 404.34 37 36 32 t 15 2 78 r r and Re- 3 j gulus. 44 364 60 47 47 43 :: 17 364 78s 10 v and 0. 58 564 34 164 L. 25 39 32 f 17 I I 77 gr I and Re- { gulus. 46 5 1 52 474 U. 58 48 17 i *9 52 T 784 3 D and 0. 45 i 6 t V 54 27AU. 58 49 0 t 19 44 r 784 5 D and 0. 67 1 44 43 t 34 . 67 29 32 j l 9 3°! 77 c s and ^ 7 Spica 4 R. 38 56A 53 554 U. 69 58 39 i 2 1 29 79 8 D and 0. 67 o4 56 114 L. 55 34 22 t 21 27? 78 6 1 D and Spica m. 44 31 40 3* U 80 58 26 4 23 40 80 8| r and 0. 66 22| 68 8 L. 43 34 46 t 23 18 79 s \ 3) and Spica 40 40 \ 34 54 U. 92 19 4 t 81 4 j D and 0 . 39 2l4 36 27I u. 92 2 l 40 j - 26 22 i' 81 to v and 0 . 69 22| 76 43i L. 31 23 20 f 25 49 r 794 6 $ 2 ca 1JR, 40 314 25 84 U. 103 47 6 4 5 1 ? 28 84 81 6 1 5 and 0 . 39 I If 26 44 ? D. io 3 49 56 t 28 34 81 8 I T> and q . 73 9 rV 83 534 U. 19 11 27-f- 27 3 i 81 4 D and Spica >m. 37 32 f 1 8 484 U. 115 38 27 3 454 29 3 l 8f| t0| D and 0 . 27 351 77 26 t VU. 52 4 4 f 29 562 Jo 1. 1 5 and An- tares..
;06 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS 1775' Time by Watch K. Altitude of the K's L. L. Moon's Altitude. Distance of the P's L. from H's or . Latitude of the Ship 8. Longitude West of Greenwich. Thermom. H 0 * O O " 0 O ? Jbne 9- 9 30 53 51 37 t 65 594 U. 6l 51 7 i 31 33* 8if 9 57 33 34 32 t 72 264 U. 38 56 22 f 32 26s 8if h - 10. 9 57 42 34 2944 59 284, -U. 25 55 12 t 32 7r 81 10 7 57 80 57 61 53* u. 22 5* 40 t 32 18s 81 North. © - ii. 12 rZ 10 59 14 T. 72 5 l u. 37 24 28 t 0 4 °i 3 1 54* 80 12 26 54 25 32;t. 73 274 u. 62 27 10 4 0 40 i 32 36 80 P 12 . I I 55 45 19 22s 56 .64 u. 50 24 18 f 31 484 81 12 11 32 58 5 t 59 13! u. 51 49 0 t 31 19s 81 © 18. 21 9 3 ° 13 4 i-r 63 244 u. 102 11 53 t 30 * 3 t 79* P -- 19. 2 I 32 47 18 5 '* 7 i 25 * u 102 57 49 7 54 3 1 64 8o| - 20. 21 25 46 16 8-r 82 2 I. 4 D. 76 11 40 9 i °4 32 3 it 79 * July I. 3 43 49 81 164 55- 56* u. 40 35 -H- co co 41 3 i 76s 6 6 19 50 8-do 76 54* u. 41 12 54 27 214 41 1 76 o 2 . 5 38 29 56 33xo 66 I 4 ti -U. 52 5 37 28 53 41 2f 75* p - 3- 5 47 3 1 54 ii* 57 28s u 63 12 15 t 40 11* 75 <? - 4- 5 39 57 55 264 45 234 u. 74 22 39 J 39 424 75 6 i 24 50 47A- 49 64 u. 74 30 8 J 40 8* 75 11 21 52 40 20 37 Of L. 22 8 7 + 39 37 74 s - 5. 7 1 56 37 434 47 5'* u. 86 15 13 £ 39 36 77 11 16 23 29 124 42 2* L. 55 4i 17 t 39 284 75 % 6. 5 49 18 52 534 24 554 u. 97 32 29 33 I2f 39 I2§ 76* 11 17 46 16 2 if 44 264 u. 57 30 49 + 38 58 75 11 28 30-; 29 42 1 43 144 u. 43 6 18 t 39 20 75 ¥ 7- 6 24 39 45 204 20 3 -r 1 ,U. 109 50 36 £ 39 9 78 * 11 6 48 28 20 45 49 t u. 30 3 i 52 t 39 19! 76s h 8 7 9 i 9 36 i 3 l '5 59 * u. 122 39 11 34 14s 39 301 79* Objects* j p and Re- 71 gulus. c p and An- 8 I tares. c p and An- 6 £ tares. s p and Spi 2 < ca M: (.clouds. 8 4 10 7 io 6 io io 6 6 8 -! 6 ! -! 6 ! 6 6 io! 6 io p and Spi- ca m. p and u Aquilae. p and " Aquilae. p and Spi- ca M. p and ©. p and ©. p and ©. P and ©: Dol. Q. p and©: Rams. Qh P and ©. p and ©. p and ©: Dol. p and ©. A Bird's Q. P and Spi- ca p and ©. P and An- tares. p and ©. p and Re- gulus. p and An- tares. p and ©. p and An- tares, p and ©: Back Obs.
ON BOARD THE RESOLUTION. 307 I 775- Time by Watch K. Altitude of the 0's L. L. Moon's Altitude. Distance of 5's L. front Sun's or Star. Latitude of the Ship N. Longitude West of Greenwich. H ET* 0 3 O O *-*"> O Objects. H " O / O o ' " O ' 0 3 cr . L July 19. 21 36 59 I 8 1 I 21 39 9 26 l6 72 10 ' L and q : 1 very cloudy V- - 20. 24 16s 63 014 U. 68 54 56 39 24s 24 54 70 8 D and 0 . 23 49 20 54 264 48 i 9t 68 4 14 f 25 9k 7 1 8 D and 0 . <r< 1 I to to 3 12 26s 65 284 21 4 u. 55 7 49 j 22 25 724 10 D and 0 . 21 25 11 29 274 6l 20| L. 45 35 10 40 324 20 40 68 10 D and 0 . 23 18 1 50 37 x 6Z 53t O. 45 2 17 40 39 20 224 674 10 D and 0 . 1 13 24 67 19-rV 50 531 U. 44 26 53 f 20 39 i 69 8 3 ) and 0 . 0 - 23. 2 59 37 64 50 i 3 i 464 U. 43 49 25 f 20 324 8 L and 0 . %* The characters annexed to the preceding Observations are explained on p. 178; but it is necessary to add, that those numbers, which the letter T is found against, express the true altitude of the center of the object, found by computation it having been inconvenient, on some account or other, to observe the altitude of that object at the time. It may be.farther remarked, that the dip of the horizon, on board the Resolution, was 4' 20", unless expresly said to be otherwise; and that when no Quadrant is mentioned, the observed distance may, in general, be supposed to have been taken with Dollond's Quadrant. t
^ I i>; t v>H ftp. 4.7 ■!♦?; +S O I. rsi: £ O r .'.yj ,m; ;- . / { : . '_A^ v:.>J :o 4'U fri'M J! .-in-ti li-MP'
o U R A OF THE SITUATIONS of his Majesty's Sloop Resolution each Day at Noon, during her late Voyage on Discoveries towards the South j As shewn by the Log, by two Time-keepers, one made by Mr. Kendall, on Mr. Harrison's Principles, and the other by Mr. Arnold (No. 3.), and also by Observation. TOGETHER WITH The Longitudes and Latitudes of all Lands seen in that Voyage, as well as the more remarkable Capes, Head-Lands, and Bays in them. j
1 .
O <r "X o* W O -T +0 ON BOARD THE RESOLUTION. 311 Course. Distance. Latitude North Lotigitu'- 0 West Swell Sets. By Account. By Observation. By Account. By Watch K. By A, No. 3. By Observation. Corrected. 0 Miles. 0 ' 0 0 O 0 ° / 0 ' 50 5 4 344 4 34 " S. 6| W. 49 49 -6 49 16 f 4 51 4 46 S.E. S. 40i W. 32 48 52 48 5° 6 22 5 -84 4 5°4 5 224 S.E. S. 401 W. 107 47 29 47 28! 7 064 6 554 6 204 6 594 S.E. S. 20| W. 64 46 28| 46 244 7 40 7 294 6 534 7 33 E. N. 45 W. 22s 46 44 i 46 43 8 04 7 364 6 494 7 4 - E. s. 22 w. 85 45 25 45 20 8 50 8 234 7 294 8 274 Cape Ortagal. 43 464 \ 8 32 S. 14 E. 68 44 12 43 54 8 48 8 28 S. 594 W. 45 43 3 1 43 30 9 394 8 594 South. 1 43 3 ° 43 35 9 444 9 -'4 7 534 9 444 9 -5 S. 36 W. 88 42 24 42 18 10 50 10 274 9 02f 10 234 10 274 S. 25J.W. I S3 40 0 40 02 12 16 11 494 10 -54 11 44 11 484 s. 254 w. 158 37 4o 37 40 13 424 13 io4 11 244 -3 iOy -3 ioi W. 62 s. H 5 35 3 2 35 3 J f 15 08 14 284 12 34t -4 36 -4 28 S. 194 w. in 33 46i 33 43 15 54 15 09 I -3 o8f -5 22 -5 091 s. 48 w. 82 32 48 32 481 17 02 16 3 6 4 -4 26s 16 30 16 36 Porto Sancto. 32 581 16 25! Fonchial, in Madeira. 32 33k -7 iil 3i 58 -7 02 S. by W. * 35 i 29 45 29 42s 18 22| l 7 294 14 254 -7 341 N. E. end of Palma. 28 43 -7 56? Middle of Palma. 28 36 18 o4 S. 35 W. 80 I 28 37 19 104 18 244 -4 4-4 -9 114 1 27 551 19 381 18 504 18 52 18 534 Hummock , towards the S. end of Ferro 27 42 18 0 91 S. 11 i W. in 26 o6z 26 07I 20 02i -9 -7 18 341 S. 8fW. 128 24 oi 24 064 20 231 19 3i4 -5 02f -9 45 -9 24 S. 8 W. 120 22 07 22 °7 20 411 19 594 -5 i6i 20 034 -9 52 S. 194 W. 129 20 05I 20 051 21 28 20 54t -5 534 20 5 ° 20 27 S. 22§ W. I 5 1 i 17 46 17 48 22 294 22 o6| 16 484 21 5-4 21 59 S. 22 w. 107 16 07s 16 104 23 11 22 484 -7 1 2-|- 22 33 22 4*4 s North Point. 16 iz 4 Bonavista, < East Point. 16 034 22 444 I South Point. 15 58: s North End. 15 i 54 23 °3 Mayo,< Great Hummock. r 5 124 23 04 t South end. J 5 11 23 10 S. 30 W.| 8cf 15 0 '4 591 23 53 23 264 -7 3-4 23 -5 23 18 Port Praya , m St. Jago. l 4 534 24 4 23 364 -7 42 f 23 40 23 29! S. 34 E. 7H 13 491 - -3 491 23 9 22 3 - 22 341 S. 1 1 E. 90 12 21| 12 194 22 5 1 23 o 4 -5 5-4 22 134 22 524 S. 59! E. 4 6 II 56 11 54 22 1 it 21 354 22 124 S. 56 E. 53 I I 26 11 224 21 264 21 2lf -3 344 20 504 21 -34 1772. D July 13. % 6 . 7 8. 9 10. 11 12 15 16 17 18
zir ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS 1772. Course. Dis- tance. Miles. Latitude North Longitude West Swell Sets. By Ac- IByObier- count. 1 vation. By Account. By Watcti K. By A , No. 3. By Observation. Corrected. O O ' 1 0 ° 0 0 0 ' O ' L Aug. 19. S. 24 E. 48 IO 39 1 10 39 2 1 07 20 54 t -3 074 -9 I2| 20 47 n -.- 20. S. 9 E. 86$ 9 134 9 -34 20 53 18 S 8 ? 20 08 s - 21. S. 30 E. 40 8 384 8 37 20 32 18 3"1 -9 21 f h 22. S. 54 E. 75 7 53 7 50 -9 3o4 18 017 9 °94 -7 36? -7 53? 0 23- S. 434 E. 844 6 48| 6 487 18 29? 16 49i 7 444 16 31? 16 4-? r ■ 24. S. 67 E. 74 6 20 6 23I -7 21 15 274 6 064 -4 46 -5 -9? if -- 2 5- S. 56 E. 53 5 534 5 54 16 37 14 02 -4 I2| 9 -- 2b. S. E. 64 5 084 5 064 15 5-4 -3 i6i -3 031 v - 27. 3. 48 E. 81 4 12 4 -3 14 51 II 471 i 384 12 16 11 40-1 East. ? >-- 28. S. 68 E. 75 3 45 3 42? *3 42 IO 174 0 074 11 07 10 o-l T? -- 29. 3. 58 E. 63 3 084 3 097 12 48 8 594 1 354 10 -3 8 431 O go 3. 634 E. 7 1 2 37 2 36 11 44 7 1 2^ 3 394 9 °9 6 561 5 .. 3 1 - S. 85 E. 50 2 3-4 2 3 ■'1 10 54 5 3-4 5 42 8 -9 5 -5? F Sept. 1. S. 574- W. 53 2 05 1 58 4 11 38 5 4°-r 6 024 9 °3 5 25I S --- 2. 3. 44 W. 49 1 23 1 214 12 124 6 244 5 234 5 35 6 09 V 3- 5. 71 W. 82 0 56 0 59 13 30 6 52s 7 37? ? --- 4 8. 80 W. 66 0 45 0 5°? 14 35 9 C9i 3 I0 4 7 57? 8 53? The current set N. by E. 22 feet in a minute. F - 5- 8. 78 W. IO§ 0 48s 0 534 14 45 9 I2f 3 20; 9 54 8 §6? O 6. 3. 64 E. 55 0 294 0 33? 13 55? 7 524 4 544 9 0 7 3 6 ? D -- 7- S. 83 E. 47 0 28 0 23 -3 09 8 22 7 -7? South. South. Crolled the Equinoctial. 8 12§ f -- 8. S. 60 w. 7i 0 18 H ioz 9 024 4 5 2 4 7 58J 8 47 5! - 9- 3. 48 W. 50 0 5ii 0 59 14 48 9 464 4 2Z4 9 26 9 3° V - 10. S. 54 w. 68 1 54 2 0 15 28 10 524 2 524 10 06 10 37 ? 11. S. 33 w. 70 2 59 3 051 ib o6§ 12 174 2 084 10 44? 12 02 T? - 12. 3. 22 W. 67 4 084 4 12 16 32 13 '64 1 351 11 10 -3 of O - 13 S. 36 W. 73 5 10 5 12 -7 H 14 164 0 494 -4 2-4 14 21| D ■- 14. 3. 294 W. 92 6 32 27 59S 15 084. 0 22; -5 -31 -5 -31 F - '5- 8. 184W. 109-J- 8 ' 6 ? 18 34? 16 221 9 -- 16. S. 23 w. 79 9 29 1 9 291 *9 04 1 West. -7 251 it - 17. I X 04 -9 32? 18 2-4 - -74 18 26 18 26| ? - 18. 8. 20 W. 924 12 31 20 04? 18 374 - 454 -7 561 18 431 J? 19. 8. 24 W. 102 14 04 14 07 20 464 -9 3 St 2 214 18 541 -9 4° i O 20. 5. 16 W. 9i '5 34 15 38 21 124 20 -2; 2 374 20 0 61 20 -7 i . . 2 1. 3. 21 W. 954 *7 07 '7 14 21 5i 20 57? F 22 8. 214W. 92s 18 39 18 46? 22 29I 21 324 3 334 21 -91 21 37 k L 2 3- 8. 14 W. 81 20 051 20 12I 22 52 22 04 3 534 21 471 22 °5? V 24. S. 17 W. 8of 21 29 21 35 ? 23 19? 22 334 4 04 22 21 22 39 l r 2 5. s. 31 w. 87 22 50 22 54f 24 104 23 381 b - 26 8. c| W. 744 24 09 24 -7 24 11? 23 434 4 3°4 23 3 °? 2 3 48s O 27. 5. 2 W. 26 24 43 24 44 ? 24 124 23 464 4 214 23 331 23 5-4 r 28. S. 23 E. 45 25 26s 25 294 23 52? 23 361 <? - 29. S. 59 E. 80 26 11 26 -7? 22 25? East. 22 -54 s 30 . S. ; 04 E 114 26 55 - 1 - 584 20 184 20 084 0 074 -9 551 20 -3
ON BOARD THE RESOLUTION. 313 1772 . Course, Distance. Latitude South Longitude West Swell Sets. By Account. By Ob- serration By Account. By Wat h K. By A. No. 3 . By Obler- vation. Corrected, 0 Miles. 0 ' O y O ' 0 / 0 E. ' ° f 0 u Oct. 1. S. 75 E. I 0 7 27 26 27 28 18 14s l8 09 2 2 3t 17 56! 18 14 ¥ --- 2 . S. 75s E. 4 6 | 27 39 s 27 384 17 29 17 074 3 424 1 7 Olf '7 13! J? -3- S. 67 s E. 87 28 11 f 28 094 16 04 15 274 5 3i4 15 i°! 15 324 N. E. 0 4. S. 6;t E. *35i 29 01 29 23 13 37 13 084 8 n4 13 33 13 14 ! N. E. D 5- S. 88s- E. 804 - 29 04 29 04 12 0 I I 28s 10 084 11 50 11 334 F - 6 . S. 12 W. 44 t 29 44 29 48s 12 124 11 454 10 057 11 40 11 5°4 L -- 7. S. 2iW. 81 3 1 C9i 31 21 12 164 11 567 10 174 11 5 1 ! 12 014 V 8. S. 23s E. 76 32 304 32 4 Si I I 33 11 294 10 564 11 24! 11 344 ¥ -- 9. S. 39 E. 83 33 5o4 34 IO 21# IO 164 12 224 10 n! IO 22f f} -10. S. 70 E. 84 34 29 34 284 8 42! 8 23 s 14 364 8 18 8 27 O - 11. E. byS. 1 S. 66| 34 44! 34 44f 7 24! 7 054 16 074 7 0! 7 184 D -12. E. by S. 34! 34 51! 34 5i| 6 37! 6 25l 16 494 5 55! 6 25 F --- I^. S. 62s E, 42 35 ii! 35 14! 5 47! 5 18 L -14. S. 77 E. 89 35 34! 35 32! 4 12 3 2 5 t 20 ot 2 55! 3 19 % " I 5* S. 85 E. 85 35 40 35 32! 2 281 1 224 22 464 0 53 1 14 East. East. East. ¥ -- 16. N. 81 E. 135 35 17 35 17 O i5i 1 374 26 oi4 2 064 1 46 The water discoloured, as if we were in soundings. b --- 17. N. 82 E. 110 35 °i| 35 0 2 284 3 594 28 334 4 4i4 4 09 O -18 N. 80 E. 128 34 37* 34 37i 5 044 6 3i4 31 284 7 14! 6 43 v 19. N. 71 E. 60 34 34 19 6 n4 7 264 32 354 8 08! 7 374 f -20. S. 29 E. 29 34 44i 34 484 6 29 7 364 32 57 i 8 G2f 7 474 8 -2 1. S. 5 E. 55 35 4 2 4 35 39 6 344 7 214 33 074 7 59 i 7 324 V -- 22. S. 8. E. 76 36 50 36 524 7 n4 8 094 33 587 8 474 8 204 ¥ -2 3- 8. 65 E. 37i 37 084 37 124 7 544 9 °T 35 024 9 38! 9 114 h -24. E.N.E 4E. 9i Z6 42 36 38 9 42 11 04 37 264 11 384 11 n4 Q -25. N. 63 E. 136 35 37 35 37 12 I2i 13 234 D ■-- 26. N. 49 E. 9 1 34 37* 34 29-! 13 377 14 184 41 i64 14 57 14 30 W. Sounded: No ground with 210 fathoms. F ->- - 27. N. 45 E- 79 133 44 133 43 14 44i 15 II 8 42 254 15 494 15 22| w. Sounded: No ground with 200 fathoms. 8 -28. N. 89 E.| 53 I33 43 I33 4 ii 15 46s 15 5^ 43 274 16 35 16 08 Sounded : No ground with 220 fathoms. If -29 S. 81 E | 74 33 534 33 534 17 14 17 30 Cape of Good ) Hope, i 33 57 33 56 18 104 18 127 47 184 18 50 18 23! D Nov. 23. 3. 46 W 58 34 37 34 364 17 3 2 i 17 454 17 29! 17 434 N. $ -24. S. 10 E. 50 35 25 35 234 17 424 i7 58 s 17 35 17 554 N. 8 -25. S. 20 W. 98 36 55* 37 14 16 527 16 384 16 021 16 384 if -- 26. 8. 11 W. 99 38 51 39 °3i 16 257 15 347 15 024 15 344 ¥ -27. S. 27 E. 67 40 oz 40 05J- 17 064 1.6 3 1 ! 15 53! 16 3-4 h -28. S. 4 E. 55 40 58 40 584 17 117 16 31 O 29. S. 3 E. 69 42 074 42 08 17 167 16 307 15 42! 16 3° T D 30. S. 60 E. 29 42 22-4 42 22 17 507 17 134 Dec. 1. S. 8 E. 53 43 14! 43 144 18 of 17 324
w * 0 " £■ o " "0 X* # O* it 0 x" ?}• 0+ >£• o ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS 3i4 s v D F S V r h O 5 $ " It 1772 Course • Dis- lance. Miles. Latitude South Longitude East Swell Sets. By Account. ByObier- vation. by Account. by Watct) K. By A. No. 3. by Observation* Corrected. O 0 ' 0 ° ' ■ 0 / O ' 0 ' O Dec. 2 S. 49 E. 40 43 404 43 404 18 4'£ 18 224 17 22£ 18 224 3 S. 4 E. 45 44 2 5l 44 2 5 t 18 45* 18 254 17 26s 18 254 4- 8. 19 E. 83 45 44 45 45 '9 234 18 29? '7 2Z£ 18 294 -- 5- S. 23 W. 92 47 09 i 47 094 18 3'4 '7 594 16 461 17 154 '7 §94 -- - 6. s * 5 W. 77 48 261 48 344 18 204 18 94 16 47 £ '7 424 18 094 7- 8. 4 W. 8Z.8 49 58? 49 50 18 124 18 '7 8. S. 71 E. 39 50 01! 50 02 '9 10 No ground with 100 fa- 19 32 --- 9- N. 54 E. 32 49 43 49 45 '9 5° thorns. 20 3° Met with the ist Ice island. 5° 58 20 53 - 10. S- 5 E. 78 51 024 5 1 044 20 01 21 '4 '9 3't 20 164 21 02i 1 ' 11. 8. io E. 45 5 1 47 5' 49 t 20 137 21 354 •9 58? 20 50 21 354 - - - 12. S. 25 E 59 52 42 i 52 43 '9 34 No ground with 150 fa- 20 597 - '3- S. 5 E. 64 53 46 53 48 '9 424 thorns. 21 11 - 14. 8. 26 E. 72 54 5°4 54 55x 20 364 22 9i 20 24s 21 224 22 094 The current set S. S. E. 40 feet in a minute. - '5- S. 58 E. 14 55 024 55 04 20 574 22 40 - 16. N. 2 E. 3 54 594 55 0 20 574 22 5°4 -,- '7* S. 58 E. 30 55 '5 t 55 16 21 45? 23 46 22 0£ 22 584 23 467 Tacked from the Ice. 55 0x4 24 11 -- 18. N. 38 W. 22 54 584 54 584 21 184 23 554 Stood Eastward 54 47 23 354 -- i 9 . N. 37 E. 47 54 214 54 2l£ 22 07I 25 334 23 414 24 45 25 33i - 20. N* 75 E. 82 54 0 54 0 24 2X4 No ground with x50 fa- 28 094 s. Stood Southward. 53 5' thorns. 29 5- - 21. S. 78 E. 43 54 09 54 104 25 334 29 394 27 45 28 5' 7 29 43 t 22. S. 26 E. 47 54 524 54 54 26 09 3° 244 28 377 29 454 30 39 Sounded: No ground with 130 fathoms. -- 23. *>• 57 E. 56 55 24^ 55 254 27 3'4 32 oi4 - 24- S. 9 W. 65 . 56 30-l 56 3'4 27 '3 3' 42 29 40 30 524 3' 474 -- 25. S. 23 w. 78 57 434 57 44 26 164 29 5' w. 26. S. 51 w. ■ 72 58 29 58 3'4 24 3'4 27 9l 25 034 26 '94 27 16 w. - - 27. N. 80 w. 73 58 184 58 20 22 Hi 25 67 22 59 24 16 25 Hi w. Sounded: No ground with 220 fathoms. 28. 8. 69 w. 62 58 427 58 444 20 23 22 64 '9 58 21 16 22 '54 29. S. 72 w. 90 59 I2 7 59 12 '7 384 '9 124 -- 30. S. 79 w. 57 59 23 59 2.3 16 044 '7 134 14 464 l6 224 '7 244 - 3'- 8. 61 w. 68 59 56 59 484 15 08 15 404 '7 73 . Jan. 1. S. 63 w. 48 60 174 60 024 '3 42 '3 274 2. N. 49 w. 80 59 24 59 04 11 404 10 284 8 '54 9 364 IO 41 Stood Eastward. 58 524 10 32 - 3- S. 89 E. 4° 4 59 24! 59 i84 12 597 11 427 4- N. 84 E. 109 59 134 59 oil 16 3'4 '5 064 - 5- S. 71 E. '53 -9 5 '4 59 5' 21 174 >9 434 6. S. 77 E '39 60 23 60 2I£ 2 5 487 24 o6| _ 7- S. 81 E 1*35 1 60 44 60 404 30 194 28 104 26 054 28 °5 28 264
ON BOARD THE RESOLUTION 3-5 TV/* Latitude South Longitude West Gourie. tance. By Ac- By Ob- By Ac- By Watch By A. By Obier- Corrected. Swell *773- count. fervation count. K. ' No vation. Sets. 0 Miles. 0 ' O ' O * O O O r 0 r Jan. 8. 8. 72 E. 136 61 23 6l 2l| 34 464 32 234 3° 084 32 454 32 40 h -- 9- 8. 75 E. 64 61 381 6l 36 36 554 34 3° 32 i54 34 5 1 34 464 Q -- ro. 8. 55 E. 41 61 591 62 O 38 36 i| 33 48 3 6 2 2-1 36 19 V - - n. S. 27 E. 89I 63 20 6.3 20 39 354 37 154 35 °3 37 364 37 334 $ - - - 12. S. 32 E. 6l 64 114 64 "4 40 49 38 44 35 534 38 25 38 224 The current set N. N. W . 2 7 feet a minute. 38 S - iZ S. 6z E. 17 64 igi 64 i6| 4i 234 38 344 36 244 38 54- 4 53 n - 14. N. 23 E. 21 63 574 63 57 41 42 38 574 3 6 5'4 39 5i4 39 164 ? --- * 5 - N. 30 E. 27 6z 334 6 3 324 42 124- 39 4 37 °4 40 01 39 23 b -- 16. S. 2 E. 56 64 29 66 364 64 3 1 42 1 64 38 4 g l 36 474 39 5i4 39 074 w. 0 -7- 5. 5 E. 126 66 z64 42 43 38 54 36 554 39 57 39 134 Ice : Stooc Northward. 67 i4i 39 oz4 v - 18. N. 21 E. 44 65 554 65 59i 294 43 2lf 38 454 36 48; 39 49 39 054 F --- 19- N. 10 E. 88 64 3 2 t 64 43 584 39 324 37 35 4 40 344 39 5 2 4 054 s -- 20. North. 29 64 0 6.Z 58? 43 584 39 44 t 37 484 40 47 40 V - LI. N. 31 E. 81 62 504 62 474 45 32 40 484 38 524 4t 50 4t °9t r 22. N. 43 E. 100 61 344 61 334 47 58 544 42 55r 41 14 t 43 564 43 i&4 h 2 3* N. 46 E. 128 60 04, 60 02f 50 45 46 43 5>i 46 47 46 074 G - 24. N. 40 E. <3* 58 224 58 244 53 364 48 55 46 594 49 5° 49 164 w. r -- 25, N. 65 E. 76 57 b 2 57 534 55 474 5i 15 s 26. North. 48 57 04 57 07 55 474 5i °3t w. 8 - 27. N. 23 E. 44 56 234 56 28 5 6 15 50 554 49 044 51 554 5i 174 w. n 28. N. 17 E. 124 54 294 54 28.1 57 184 51 484 50 124 5i 34 52 117 r -- 29. N. 28 E. 137 52 274 52 29 59 oZ4 54 254 j? 32. N. 51 E. 87 5i 33 5* 3 1 60 184 8 56 56 074 G -- 3 1 * N. 47 E. 53 50 5 6 i 50 52 5*4 61 124 454 57 55 224 52 57 314 i Feb. 1. N. 10 E. 121 48 53 48 61 57 4i4 55 58 57 254 58 044 Pengwins, divers and 1 48 3U 58 25 sea-weed. Bore away. } F -- 2. N. 79 E.| 82 *•+" 1-0 c-O OO Th 48 36; 63 44 59 574 58 164 59 4*i 60 2 if Stood North East. 49 i34 60 274 Stood North West. 48 534 6 1 43 8 -- 3- S. 65 E. 34 48 50J 48 5°i 64 304 60 45 59 054 60 284 61 09 3 . 8 . 2 . V ■ - " 4 S. 70 W. 74 49 16 49 15 62 464 59 334 57 594 59 164 59 574 S. E. Stood North East. 49 36' 59 22 Stood North West. 49 28; 59 33 ? -- S- N. 77 W.| 37 ]49 064 49 07 02-1 61 5i4 58 484 57 164 58 314 59 13 Stood North West. 48 58 524 Stood South East. 48 05-r 58 084 b -- 6. N. 10 E. 66 48 014 48 o6| 6 2 07J 59 34 57 3i4 58 46 59 28 S. G 7- S. 724 E. 144 48 49 48 5H 65 094 62 154 60 4 2 t 61 574 62 4° 4 r --- 8. 8" 544 E. 106 49 50 49 5° 67 234 64 534 - - 9 - 8. 20 W. 11 50 04 50 01 67 17 64 214 64 OZ 64 464. 8 10. S. 88 E. 38 50 024 50 06s 68 16 65 104 63 534 65 oi4 65 3 6 ? % 11. S. 50 E. 120 51 2 3i 5 1 144 70 4if 67 461 66 22 67 271 68 121 4M
ji6 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS J 773 ' Course. Dis- "ance. Latitude South Longitude East By Account. Observation. By Account. By Watch K. By A. No. 3. By Observation. 0 Vliles. 0 ' 0 O * O * O ' O r Feb. 12. s. 5 l E. 148 52 56L 52 48 73 49 70 344 69 11* 70 48 IZ- 8. 54 E. III 53 53 ? 53 544 - 76 1 84 72 534 71 33 * 73 21 f 0 14. 8. 48 E. * 25 ! 55 i8 t 55 1 84 78 0 73 354 72 19* 74 3 v * 5 - S. 56 E. ,6 3 5 6 49t 56 5 ° 82 if 79 I 2 -y 77 544 79 40 F 16. 8. 70 E. 75 57 £ 5 t 57 15 ! 84 ii§ 81 204 80 4 81 47 * 8 * 7 " s. 44 E. 56 57 55 * 57 544 85 . 24? V -- 18. 8. 86 E. 57 57 59 * 57 57 87 u* 83 344 82 21 "*•" 83 49 r 19. 8. 76 E. l 35 58 2 94 58 3 ° 91 20* h - 20. 8. 81* E. 122 58 471 58 464 95 n 4 9 i 254 90 15 * 9 i 384 0 -- 21. 8. 67 E. 29 58 58 59 0 96 3 ? 92 20| 9 1 12 92 334 " -- 22. 8. 46 E. 47 i 59 Zi 59 35 97 i o 4 93 34 92 27 93 47 F - 2Z- 8. 20 E. 90 60 55 ? 61 i 4 98 13? 8 - 24. 8. 46 E. 28 61 20| 61 204 98 554 n - 25. N. 16 E. 33 60 49 60 484 99 14 95 6* 94 6* 95 1 84 ? 26. 8. 76I E. 81* 61 74 61 8 IOI 58 97 32 96 33 4 97 43 * 1? -- 27 - N. 55 E. 77 60 24 60 24 104 27 0 - 28. 136 59 58 59 571 108 541 104 344 103 39 104 45 * D March 1. 3 . 67s E. 94 60 34 60 34 111 484 i -- 2. 8. 40 W. iZ 60 44 60 44 iii 32? 8 3 - N. 64 E. 65I 60 1 54 60 164 HZ 32 109 454 108 5 i 109 ON it - 4 - 8. 82 E. 105 60 32 60 35 117 2| 116 s - 5 - 8. 88 E 108 60 344 60 384 120 43 534 i '5 55 117 03* h 6. N. 34 E. 42 60 3 i 60 94 (21 304 118 c >4 117 13? 1 iS IO| G - 7 - N. 86 X. 56 59 59 i 60 12 123 214 r --- 8. N. 4 1 E. 45 59 25 59 434 124 i 9 120 4 ° 4 "9 584 120 491 F -- 9 - N. 48 E. 77 58 534 58 551 126 44 8 -- 10. N. 7 1 E. 154 58 5 i 58 6 130 434 V 11. 8. 85I E. 9 i 58 161 58 9 1 33 354 129 45 ! 129 6* 129 543 r - 12- 8. 48 E. 69 58 554 58 551 1 35 14 'Zi 44 130 254 131 121 h £ 3 - N. 7 6 E. 55 58 421 58 42 136 57 * 132 4 i? 132 44 132 49 O - 14. N. 76 E. 86 58 2ii 58 2I| '39 37 iZ 5 * 74 1.34 42* 136 1 5 r i 5 - 8. 69 E 11 9 59 4 ? .59 4 " 143 11 138 59 ? >Z8 254 '39 58^ F 16. N. 83 E IIO 58 5 °* 58 5 i 4 146 424 142 94 141 36* 143 8, Stood to the Northward. 58 57 8 £ 7 - N. 81 E.I148 58 284 58 284 151 324 146 354 147 33 14 - 3 x 8 N. 30 E 136 56 3°4 5 6 Zi 4 153 39 149 94 CO OO 150 7 - ? 19 N. 3 6 5 E 144 54 35 i 54 46 156 IO| 48 h - 20 .N. 49 5 E 164 52 48 53 224 158 5 U 153 '53 18* 154 45 O - 2 I N. 3 'i E 150 5 i 1 41 5 i 144 160 59-1 L - 22 .N 491 E 123 49 55 49 55 * 163 2 64 158 274 ' 5 8 2* 159 24- F ■-- 23 N 40 E - 169-] l 47 453 4 7 45 i 166 6* 160 454 160 234 161 42 8 - 24 N 5 1 E • 1 1 5 46 3 2 ^ 46 324 168 191 162 504 -162 29 s 163 47 U - -25 . N 79 E • 83 46 17 46 15 170 17 ? ? - 22 N 32 E - 35 45 45 j 45 45 * 170 44? • ' Observatory at B"y. J alky j 45 47tj Corrected. Swell sets. S.b.E. S. 3 . W. s. w. 8 . 71 01 73 2°1 74 02| 79 39t 81 47 82 38 84 21 88 07 9 £ 54i 92 50i 94 °4 94 56* 95 29 95 37* 98 04 100 37 105 08 108 14 108 09 IIO 20| HZ 55* S 117 29I 118 374S.E. 120 25! 121 I9i 123 Ol| '27 37* 130 26 121 46 IZZ 24 .136 o £ 39 43 i 142 54t 146 25 147 20; H9 554 152 11 154 Z6 156 47a l B9 1 7i 161 36 163 424 165 38 166 4s 166 18 8 . 3f 54 S. 8 . E. E. E.
ON BOARD THE RESOLUTION, 3i7 u. *773 • Course. Distance. Latitude South Longitude East Swell sets. By Account. By Observation. By Account. By Watch K. By A. No. %. By Observation. Corrected. O Miles. O 0 O 0 V O 0 s May 11. E. 45 37 166 41 s 12. N. 23 6i 44 44 3 6 ? 166 34* 167 17 If - -. 13- N. 34 E. 119 42 59I 42 551 168 o64 168 57 ? -- 14 N. 5i E. 971 41 58 1 41 52I 169 49* 170 20* 169 54* 170 53* b - l 5- N. 32 E. 46s 41 13 41 13 170 224 170 59* 170 29* -71 33* O 1 " ■ 16. N. 52 E. 23 I40 59 40 58 170 5i 172 >7 N. Cape Farewell. 40 35* 172 47* V -- i7- 60 E. 43 40 37* 40 33 i 171 4 8| 172 54* 172 29 173 331 173 29* F - 18. S. 65 E. 54 40 56 41 3 174 274 June Charlotte's Sound. 41 6 174 18-A F 8. 41 56* 174 57* 175 364 L - ' 9 S. 52 E. 9i 42 52s 42 57* : 176 37 177 32 N.W. V *•-- 10. s. 52 . E. loos 43 54 43 54 i 178 25* 179 024 179 54 179 41* r ■-- 11. s. 52 E. ?8i 44 43 44 46 179 52 181 0 N.W. b - 12. 8. 59* E. 109 45 38 45 44 182 04 183 24 N.W. s - 13- s. 3i £. 43 46 15 46 24 182 364 184 7 t v - - 14 s. 7ii E. 25L 4 6 23 46 35 183 I It 184 53 t N.W. F ■ . . r§- 3. 76 E. 32 46 3 1 46 464 '83 57 s 185 234 186 144 185 584 8 -- 16. S. 32 E. 33 46 59* 46 58 184 23 186 9 8. W. U - i7- N. 40 E. 50 46 21 46 18? 185 IO 186 8 18E 584 186 4i S. W. ¥ - 18- N. 75 E. 9i 45 54* 45 54 I87 164 188 8 188 594 185 41 b -- 19. N. 59 E. 85 45 10 45 6 188 59 190 33* O -- 20 N. 76 E. 114 44 42 44 34 191 35 193 3* D 21. N. 87 E. 67 44 3 g i 44 26 193 10 194 174 '95 9 i94 48* N.W. F 1 22. S. 79 E. 66 44 39 44 354 194 43 195 544 196 4 6 196 25* 8 " ' " 23- S. 89 E. 50 44 37 44 37* 195 55 197 23 198 144 197 53 2l 24- N. 8 W. 58 43 38 43 37 195 5i 197 37 ¥ 25. N. 19 W. 23 43 16 43 14 '95 4i 197 15- . b -- 26. N. 69 E. 9 43 13 43 9* 195 53 196 47 196 24 197 15 O 1 27. N. 11 E. 36 42 34 42 34 196 2 i97 17 v - 28. S. 86 E. 36 42 36 42 35 196 5 1 198 9* $ -__ 29. s. 54 E. 23 42 49 42 46I 197 19 198 40* 8 J"i7 30- s. 67 E. 59 43 9- 43 6 £ 98 38 200 2* If 1. s. 82 E. 7i 43 15 43 74 200 21 201 26: 202 ii4 201 49* ¥ 2- N. 87 E. 64 43 4 43 24 201 54 202 524 203 24 203 15* b -- 3- 8. 72 E. 56 43 20 43 18 203 12 204 194 204 2 94 204 424 Q 4- S. 53 E. 51 43 57 43 58 2O3 5 6 20 5 10 205 20 205 32 S.W. i) -- 5 N. 62 E 105 43 9 43 11 206 11 207 12 207 22 207 34 w.. F 6. N. 34 E. 76 42 6 42 74 206 29 208 0 208 10 208 32- W. 8 - 7- N. 33 E. 52 4i 23s 4i 22 20 7 8 208 484 209 104 209 10* ■4 - 8. S. 64 E. 83 4i 58T 4i 59 208 59 210 48* ' 211 84 211 10* N. ¥ - 9- 3. 65 E. 9i 42 37 42 394 210 48 212 554 213 15 113 17* b 10. 3. 61 E. lZ2 43 43* 43 3 b 4 213 3, 2 215 274 215, 47 215 49? O - 11. 3. 87 E, 99* 43 48s 43- 34* 215 57 217 43* 217 49? 218 5* v ■ 12. N.. 79 E. 79 ' 43- 18s 43 it> 217 51 219 424 219 2 Si 219 42* F 13- N. 79 E. 46 43 7 43: i4 218 57 220 5-4 221 8 221 134
zi8 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS r Dis- Latitude South Longitude East *773* Course. taftce. By Account. By Observation. By Account. By Watch L. By Observation. Corrected. Swell sets, 6 Miles. 0 ° 0 ' 0 ' 0 s jfuiy 14. S. 79 E. 39 43 9 43 7 220 O 222 14 If -- i5- N. 4 W. 30 42 40 42 36 219 57 222 08 ¥ -- 16. N. 5i E. 109 4i 3i 41 24 222 4 223 5°4 224 64 224 124 h -- *7* N. 5 r E. tZ6 39 58 39 43-r 224 48 226 10I 226 26*- 226 Z2L O --• 18. N. 6 E. 108 37 56 37 56 22 s 24 226 224 226 z84 226 444 D -- 19. N. 8 E. 83 36 45 i 36 34! 225 17 226 43 226 59! 227 5 F - 20. N. 6 W. 74 35 23 35 20 225 74 226 33 226 49! 226 55 S 21. N. I W. .56 32 44; 32 44 224 48 225 49 226 5! 226 12 V L2. N. 15 w. ioof 3i 7i 3r 5i 224 25 225 *34 225 294 22 5 364 r -- *3- N. 7 w. 98 29 28 29 2-2 £ 224 10 224 524 22 5 84 225 154 h -*-*■ 24. 8. 67 w. 73 29 5°i 29 47 222 52 16! 224 3 o -- 25. S. 88 w. 26 29 5H 29 444 222 22 223 223 294 223 39! i) -- 26. N. 37 E. 66 28 5*4 28 5 2 l 22 3 7 224 154 224 374 224 384 L --- 27. N. 16 E. 57 27 58 27 531 223 264 224 3*4 225 *4 224 544 $ 28. N. 73 W. 27 27 44 27 43 223 1.34 223 584 224 §24 224 214 ■4 29. N. 69 W. 43 27 28 27 3°4 222 284 223 114 224 12 223 344 r 30. N. 61 E. 55 27 4 27 4! 223 224 224 225 14 224 37 South. -- Zi- N. 18 E. 46 26 201 26 *94r 223 364 224 494 225 234 225 13 0 Aug. 1. N. 25 E. 85 25 2" 25 2 4 224 164 226 225 54 d 2. N. 3 E. 108 23 I4f 23 14 2 24 224 225 364 24 226 of F -- 3- N. 2 E. 60 22 I2f 22 8r 2 24 244 225 5i4 227 74 226 154 S --- 4- N. -3 E. 38 21 3° 21 18 224 37 226 2t 22 7 124 226 26f % -- 5- N. 5b E. 70 20 384 20 39! 22 5 374 227 30! 228 404 227 544 r 6. N. 33 E. 60 i9 48 19 474 226 19 227 594 229 94 228 24 T? -- 7- N. 59 W. 97 18 57 18 5i 224 59 226 544 O 8. N. 70 W. 148 18 1 18 4 t 222 3i 223 52 225 ' 2 224 164 D --- 9- N. 79 W. 120 x 7 4if -7 4"t 220 274 221 40 221 574 222 44 F --- 10. N. 84 W. III *7 30 l 7 224 2l8 Zl4 219 35 220 24 219 594 Resolution Island. l 7 23! 218 15 L - 11. N. 86 W.| 112 *7 *5 17 * 7 t 2l6 344 217 34 2l8 if 217 584 Furneaux's Island 17 11 2l6 534 if -- 12. N. 88 W.l 01 >7 i8i 17 11 214 594 215 58 2*5 58 2l6 22 s Adventure Island. i7 6|: 2I 5 42f : ¥ 13- 8. 87 c w.| 75 l 7 *5 i7 164 213 4i4 214 4i 214 41 215 4 'hain Island. i7 25 214 294 J? - 14. S. 89 w.| 99 '7 18 17 15 211 574 212 53 212 55 213 18 Miatea, or Osnabut Or # 17 5 2 t 211 54t O rZ- S. 75 w. 96 '7 4 o i7 464 210 224 211 I 4 t 211 384 211 394 v 16. N. 87 w. 40 r7 44 17 444 209 4i4 210 58 : Oaitipeha Bay. 17 464 210 464 F 24 17 42 210 474 L - 25 -7 284 210 284 Point Venus. l 7 29! 210 2 54 4 Sept. 2 16 514 208 Owharre Bay, £ !. part. 16 44! 5 2 t <? - 7 16 5 ° 4 208 Ohamaneno Bay 16 454 ■ 204
O+kC-O Q" ^ O ON BOARD THE RESOLUTION, 3i9 ? h O D F S ■4 5) r s n ? 1 773- Course. Distance. Latitude South Longitude East Swell sets. By Account. By Obler- vation. By Account. By Watch K. By Obser. vation. Corrected. -_ - O Miles. O ° 0 0 ' ° ' Sept. 17. 16 5*4 208 0 -18. s. 71 w. 75 17 16 '7 17 206 59 206 43 206 45 -19. S. 70 w. 66 17 39i £ 7 40 205 54 20 5 384 205 42s -20. S. 69 w. 65 18 3? 18 3 i 204 49 204 39 -- 21. s. 67 w. Zr 18 23? 18 22| 204 0 203 44l 204 io| 203 527 -- 22. S. 71 w. Sr 18 394 18 41 203 9 202 464 203 124 202 564 -23. S. 70 w 8o| -9 081 *9 8f •'OI 49 201 124 LO I 384 201 244 Hervey *s Ulands. >9 *7 201 12 -- 24 S. 72 w. 7i 19 29I 19 284. 200 41-4 199 33 199 544 199 47 ■ 2 S. 76 W. IOI r9 53-r *9 5*4 198 56 197 3 6 t 198 i8| I97 524 -26. S. 73 W. 109 20 23s 20 2 54- 197 5 l 95 334 196 16 195 5*4 - 1 ■■ 2 7. S. 79 w. 120 20 46 20 40 x 95 1 I 93 45 194 274 I94 5 -28. S. 81 w. 136 21 I 21 31 192 34 l 9 l 5 I 9 I 474 191 27 --- 29- s. 76 w. 111 21 3°i 2 I 3o| 190 39 189 424 190 30 I90 64 30. N. 82 W. rZ3 21 H 21 **4 188 1 187 25? 188 124 l8 7 5*4 Oct. 1. S. 8z W. 87 21 2 If 21 214 186 29 185 47 186 344 l86 *5 Englilh Road, Eaoowe. 21 204 185 26 ' Van Diemen's Road. 7 Tongatabu. i 21 Al * s 5 34 - 8. S. 18 W. 61 22 22 4t 184 44 184 84 184 4 £ 4 184 40 -- 9. S. 50 E. 40 2 2 29I 22 28 185 17 184 51-4 185 2 44 r85 224 -zo. S. 74 w. 61 22 44i 22 454- 184 13 183 29s 183 59 184 0 Pyleuaart Island. 22 234: 184 12 - 11. S. 42 W. 88 23 5°S 23 494 183 8 182 104 182 2 1 182 404 -12. S. 19 w. 1 io 25 34 25 Z64 182 28 181 16 181 44 t 181 454 - 1 3- S. 13 w. 100 27 *3i 27 *34: 1.82 3 180 254 180 54i 180 544 -14. S. 12 W. 97 28 47 i 28 46 181 4o '79 45i 180 134 180 *34 j 15 ■ S. 9 W, 93 3° r9 30 l6 f 81 24 '79 3° 4 179 59 179 584 -16. S. 8 W. 89 3i 414 31 41? 181 10 l 79 2 71 179 55 1 179 55? 17. S. 1£ E. 63 32 42 4 32 4 It 181 114 l 79 26- 179 55 *79 54 - 18. S. 11 fc. 83 34 3i 33 464 181 27 179 48* 180 *7 180 *54 i 9 . S. 7 E. 130 35 57 35 5'8 i8i 46 1 79 474 180 16 180 *4 -- 20. S. 14 W. US 37 49 i 37 47 t 181 11 4 179 334- 179 464 179 594 - - 21. s. 28 w. 88 38 S9i 39 6 180 124 178 294 178 3 oi 178 55? The Shambles a f Ta-> ble-Head. i 39 20 178 204 , Portland. 39 25 178 12 ; - 22 S. 50 W.I109 40 15I 40 14 178 234 176 454 176 46s 177 11 Cape 1 urnagain. 40 28 176 56 --.- 2 ° S. 64 W. 33 ,4° 284 40 284 177 44 176 36 *76 35 l 177 2 . 24. S. 26 w. 78 41 3"4 41 39 176 584 176 12' 176 124 176 384 - 25. S. 38 w. 55 42 2I{ 42 23 176 124 175 54 - 26 s. 65 Wv *5 >42 29 42 27 175 59 4 175 r64 *75 164 *75 42-4. - 27. N. 10 W. 5 2 4i 36 41 354- *75 474 *75 2 54 '75 25 *75 5 *x - 28. S. 13 w. 43 42 17 42 164 175 344 '75 i6| l 75 16 176 42 i j 29. N. 24 E. 4 o 41 39 41 454: 1 75 524 '75 464 i 75 464 176 12?
320 astronomical observations 1773- Course. Dis tance. Latitude South Longitude East Swell sets. By Account. By 1 va Jbler tion. By account. By Watch K. By Observation. Corrected. 0 Miles, 0 t 0 0 0 O ' O ' T? Oct. 3°* S. 64 W. 73 42 17 42 -3? 174 24I 174 55 o - Z-- S. 58 E. *9 42 231 42 '9 '74 46-1 175 264 5 Nov. i N. 54 W. 48 41 5 l 41 5- '73 551 ' -74 45 ---- 2. 174 54 Queen Charlotte's Sound. 41 5 ~i~° -74 18 A h -- 2/- 8. 14 E. 107 43 26| 43 26s '75 24 '75 551 -75 564 NT. E. O ■■■ 1 '' 2 8. 8. 20 E. 56 44 19 44 19 i75 5°l 176 3 2 i 176 34f E. N. E. 3) 29. S. 14 E. 15 44 35t 44 3 6 ? '75 56| 176 57 i -76 0 N.E. F " 3°. S. 45 E. 107 45 5-i 45 49 t '77 43i 178 23I -78 284 N.E. S Dec. i. S. 38 E. 93 47 2 f 47 41 '79 6f 1 79 27 -79 33i N. E. V -- 2. s - 35 E. 93 48 19 48 2lx 180 28 180 56 N. E. ¥ -- 3 S. 27 E. 39 48 564 48 5 6 i 180 54 181 23 N.E. h -- 4- S. 17 W. 68 50 1 50 I 180 23s 180 53l N. E. 0 5 S. 70 W. 44 50 16 50 I4l 1 79 -9i 179 3"4 180 4 -79 5°4 N. E. r 6. 8. 6 W. 3 1 50 45 50 54 t '79 Hi 179 33 t 179 584 -79 464 N. E. About eight in the evening, passed directly over the antipodes to L,ondosi. F -- 7 > 8. 9 E. -3- 53 53 ?4 '79 48-t 180 18 180 43 ? 180 33 N. E. S -- 8. S. 6 E. 160 55 47 55 39 180 20i 181 26 181 54 i 181 42 \ N. E. n -- 9- S. 6 E. 126 57 45 58 2 180 44t 182 4 i 182 2 i 4 182 224 N.E. ¥ - 10. S. 43 E. 93 59 9 r 59 4i 182 184 56s N. E. 1? -- ii. 8. 27 E. 116 60 54 60 44 t 184 15 186 534 187 104 187 Hi N. E. G - 12. S. 30 E. '43 62 48s 62 4 6i 186 44 189 28^ 189 454 189 5 - N. E. "]) 13 8. 52 E. 92 63 4 2 t 63 39 i 189 29 l 93 -9 N. E. 5 - 8. 60 E. 100 65 46 65 42 '95 45 200 38 N. E. •4 - 16. N. 43 E. 28 64 24I 64 16: 198 7 203 4 ¥ - • 7 - S. 66 E. 5 1 64 36 o 4 35 199 57 204 3° 204 47 204 58 h - 18. N. 83 E. 87 64 25s 64 27 203 12 208 27 O - 19. S. 75 E. 73 64 44s 64 47 t 205 59 .211 0 210 27 211 274 D -- 20. S. 23 E. 75 65 56 65 58 2 07 I Of 211 47 t 211 * 4 t 212 Mt F - 21. S. 34 E. 60 66 47 66 48 : 208 34 f 213 54 f S - 22. 8. 69 E. 104 67 25 67 264 212 5 °i 218 26s n 23- N. 83 El. 93 67 i 5 f 67 I2j 216 52 f 222 19 221 46 222 45 ¥ - 24. S. 584 W. 13 67 i8i 67 l 7 216 222 4 'i 222 -54 223 7 h - 25- N. 49 E. 83 66 24 66 2lf 219 9 * 225 91 G ---- 26. N. 56 E. *4 66 13; 66 2 / 9 39 225 54 ? 225 28I 226 - 9 i v --- 2?- N. 30 E. 25 65 53 65 53 i 220 9 226 384 226 124 227 3 F - 28 N. 9 W. 92 64 23 64 18 219 47 226 -9 S - 29. N. f E. 1 1 1 62 32! 62 23 220 '3 2-25 55 225 29 226 -9 N. 21 - 30 . N. 30 W. 841 61 i 9 | 61 5 218 49 225 22 ¥ - 3 - N. 11 W. 83 59 59 59 40 2x8 11 224 47 t 224 2-4 225 n N. E. -774 E Jan. 1. N. 24 W. 3 ° 59 i 3 Z 9 ni 217 46 223 474 223 2I| 224 104 G - 2. N. 22 w. 7i 58 5 57 58 216 5 i 222 54 222 28 223 -64 r - 3 N. 5 of w. -25 56 38 56 4 6| 2 14 11 220 25s 219 59 i 220 48 4• N. 16s E. 106 55 7 54 55 i 215 8 221 22f E.
ON BOARD THE RESOLUTION. 321 >774 Course. Distance. Miles. Latitude South Longitude F.ait Swell sets. By Account. By Observation. By Account, By Watch K. By Ooier vation Corrected. 0 O 0 ° ' O 0 0 ' s Jan. 5 - N. 37 E. 94 53 40 4 53 43 r 216 4 4 221 4 Si 222 33 E. V 6 . N. 29 E 89 52 25 5* £ 9 i 218 >7 224 24 225 or. 224 451 E. r 7 > N. 42 E. "3 50 35 50 3 6 4 220 21 22(5 35i 226 55 ? 226 5 6 ? E. h - - 8. N. 42 E. 111 49 14 49 74 222 25 228 5 24 228 56 s 229 > 3 f E. 0 9 N. 74 E. 161 48 23? 48 >7 226 42 232 441 233 > 3 ? 233 5 E. 3 > - lo. N. 841 E. 97 48 74 48 71 229 6 2 35 2 235 304 2 35 22 F 11. N. 42 E 111 47 52! 4 7 5>4 231 47 237 324 238 04 237 524 S 12. S. 45 E. '45 49 34 49 34 234 22 240 34 24O 32? 240 2 34 % 1 1 > 3 - 5 . 21 E. >59 52 3 52 >1 235 52 241 524 ¥ > 4 - :S. 24 W. 125 53 56 53 551 234 28 240 84 240 37 740 2/4 h - - > 5 - s. 28 W. 154 5 6 11 5 6 5 232 22 238 i S. E. O 16. s. 74 E. 89 5 6 187 234 50 240 27 240 521 240 464 r 17 s. 16 E. >47 58 39 58 34 235 57 241 374 242 3i 241 574 47 60 55 i 60 541 237 >7 242 594 243 o4 243 >94 s -- 19 3. 7 E. 57 6i 52 61 5° 237 32 243 281 E. S. E. n __- 20. 's. 21 E. 49 62 37 62 34i 238 9 243 3 8 4 243 43? 2 4 3 59? S. E. ¥ - 21. N. 6 E 7 62 27I 62 26| 238 11 243 254 243 304 243 464 i? - 22. N. 77 E. 116 6i 59 61 56 242 18 247 344 0 - 2Z- 5. 81 E. 80 62 12 62 22 245 0 249 351 249 4°4 249 574 N N. E. V 24. S. 431 E. 104 bZ 37i 63 37 247 37 i 252 12 s - 25 S. bW.J W. IiO| b5 25 65 2^4 246 35 250 25 25O 30 250 474 8 -- 26 S. 2 w. 63 66 28s 66 35 T 246 29 250 >7? 250 22| 250 40I S. W. 27. 8. 12 E. 79 67 53 67 5>4 247 11 251 30 s. W. ¥ -- 28. S. 2 E. too 69 3> 69 3°i 247 204 251 474 -- 29. S. 34 E. 34 69 594 69 58s 248 >4 252 24 252 29 252 48 Tacked from the ice. 7> 74 253 >4 O - 3°* S. N. x 7 E. 53 70 45 70 46 248 54 253 29 D 3>* 5 E. 95 69 11 69 >3 249 18 253 53 $ Feb. 1. N. 21 E. 74 68 3 68 1 250 34 254 43t 2 54 48s 255 1 of s. w. 3 - 2. N. 33 E. 62 67 9 67 74 252 5 256 37 U - 3 N. 5° E. 65 66 25i 66 25 254 9 258 26 258 3> 258 3 6 ¥ 4 N. 32 E 44 65 471 65 4-4 255 >5 2 59 474 260 us 260 18| h 5- N. 51 w. 99 64 4? 64 5 254 53 259 36 260 0? 260 9 s. O 6 N. 42 E. *7 63 52 63 534 255 1 + 261 >>4 r 7 N. 2 E. >574 bi >7 61 5? 255 27 261 30 26l 544 262 6 F 8. North. >77 58 8} 58 4 255 27 262 29 L 9 N. I S W. 165 55 4>? 55 42 2 55 1 262 26 n - 10. N. I r E. 127 53 34 53 364 255 5 262 14 262 38? 262 544 ¥ - 11. N. 3 1 E >34 5> 42 s 5> 374 256 59 263 52 264 >6i 264 34 1? -- 12 N. I r E. 81 5° i6| 5o >5 257 6 263 544 264 >9 264 384 0 13- West. 32 5° >6£ 50 I2| 256 34 263 >54 263 39? 264 oi D 14. N. x 3 E 43 49 32 49 29 256 49 263 2I| 263 46 264 84 N. E. S >5• N. 33 W. 36 49 2 48 55 256 21 262 36 263 oi 263 24 s 16. N. 44f E. 100 47 42 47 55 258 7 265 3 2 l -- i7- N. 28 E. 94 46 22 46 17s 259 16 265 >8f 265 424 266 9f r 18 N. 3 W. 123 44 >5 44 10? 259 7 265 >3? 266 i? 26 6 54
0y Account. 0 0 ' ° 0 19. N. 22 W. 137 42 3 42 5 * 2 57 53 20. N. ib| E. 124. 40 71 39 59 f 258 43 21. N. 1 9 E. 130 37 56 37 53 i 259 38 22. N. 22 w. 109 3 6 *3 36 IOi 258 48 2 3 * S. 7 l W. 107 3 6 45 3 6 4 if 256 44 24. S. 62 W. 98 37 27 37 2 ?t 2 54 54 25. s. 78 W. 124 37 52 | 37 53 t 2 5 2 24 26. N. 36 w. 92 3 6 40 3 6 39 * 2 5 l 24 27. N. 11 w. 101 35 of 34 54 250 59 28. N. 5 w. 101 33 H 33 9 250 48 1 1. N. 8 w. 55 3 2 15 32 17 250 39 2. N. 11 E. 56 3 1 22f 3 1 134 250 55 3 N. 44 E. 44 3° 42 r 3 ° Zbl 251 3 - 4 - N. 39 E. 52 29 56 29 584 252 7 5 - N. 55 E. 24 29 441 29 4+1 252 29 6. N. 5 " W. 36 29 21 29 2 >4 251 57 7 - N. 40 W. 81 28 * 9 i 28 19I 250 59 8. N. 5 0 w. I 2 I 27 1 27 4 249 15 9. S. 89 w. 106 27 6 2 7 61 247 16 10. 89 w. 97 27 8§ 27 9i 245 28 11. S. 88 vv. 52 27 us 27 104 244 30 12. s. 64 w. 10 27 2 5 l 27 i 7 f 2 44 20 Easter Island. 27 8| I 7 4 247 18 247 3 2 2 45 24 s 246 24 246 4 2 4 244 2 21 245 204 245 4 i 4 2+3 2 |- 244 oj 2 44 224 241 5^4 242 544 2+3 174 240 39 r 241 3/4 242 2 2 39 >31 240 11 I 240 374 2 37 238 2 39 34 236 2 I 2 37 ol 2 37 284 234 A 1 - J 1 a 236 iol 2 35 59 232 25 I 234 4 233 544 2 3° i 6 l 232 i? 231 +74 228 21 I 229 5 i 229 53 226 32 s 228 24t 228 6 224 49 J 226 571 226 2 4t 223 *i 225 24 224 384 221 2-1 223 22 223 O 2 20 21 221 57 221 424 219 I 2 i 221 16 220 5+4 221 8 Swell seta. N. E.
O^+o-fi** © -T 1 +o " O "* o* w G^+o ON BOARD THE RESOLUTION. 323 1774- Course. Dist. Latiiude South Longitude East Swell sets. By Account. By Observation. By Account. By Match X. By Obier- vaMon* Corrected. 0 Miles. O O ' 0 ' 0 0 ' 0 Onateayo. 9 22 I 9 Ohevahoa. 9 404 220 584 Harbour in Ohitahoo. 9 554 220 5'5 La Magdalena. 10 254 221 11 April 13 S. 37 W. 68 IO 5 °t 10 555 215 5'4 2l8 0 220 34 219 544 - 14. S. 31 w. 102 12 23 12 245 214 56 4 217 2 2 19 54 2l8 574 - 15. S. 49 W. 116 '3 394 '3 4i4 213 25 ^ 215 334 2I 7 185 217 307 -- 16. S. 58 W. 68 *4 l 7 14 174 212 254 2 14 i"4 21 6 3 t 2l6 164 - - 17. 8. 81 W. 65 H 28 14 264 2 11 184 "3 24 215 23 2'S i| Isle Taoukaa. 14 3°4 214 5o4 The island by it. 14 38 214 39 -18. i>. 454. w. 35 14 54r 14 564 210 534 212 294 214 24 214 304 -- 19. S. 46 W. 54 i5 354 l 5 384 210 84 2 I I 28| 213 28 213 304 Palllifers Isles 15 384 213 295 -20. 2. 59 VV. 5i 1 6 4 i 16 44 209 214 2 IO 31 212 3° T 212 344 -21. S. 40 w. 116 l 7 33i •7 324 20S 34 208 554 210 554 21 I 0 Point Venus. i7 294 2 10 234 Owharre Bay, N. part . 16 424 208 504 Ohamaneno Bay 16 454 208 2 34 Bolabola. 16 324 208 84 Maurua. 16 254 207 2 74 June 5. S. 88 W. 54 16 46; 16 48 207 28 207 194 207 104 207 27 6. S. 88 W. 79 16 50 16 494 206 5 206 24 205 5 2 4 2o6 04 Howe's Island. 16 464 205 534 - 7. 8. 75 W. 76 '7 94 17 94 204 47 204 46 204 364 204 49 - 8. S. 52 W. 40 54 189 574 189 482 - 23. S. 674- W. 89 1 9 57 *9 49 4 188 5 187 52 188 534 188 25 - 24. S. 76 W. 107 20 145 20 245 186 '4 185 59 187 o4 186 32 -25. N. 87 W. 25 20 234 20 20 '85 48 185 234 186 244 '85 564 -26. 3. 53 W. 15 20 28 20 2 1\ 185 35 185 05 186 '5 '85 32*
3 - 4 - astronomical observations Lvuude Sou th Longitude ft i it 1774- Course. tdnce. By Ac ^bier- By Ac- By Watch c>y Obser- Corrected. count. va : ion. count. K vaticn. 0 Allies. 0 •> , 0 0 0 ' I Hand Teliefageo. 20 3 't 185 304 Tonamai. 20 28 185 281 Commango. 20 1 9 r 185 34 Commango-ette. to 18 s 185 32 Annamocka. 20 16 185 29* Annamocka-ette. 20 '74 185 27* Aggoau. 19 39 t 185 17 Mattafoa. '9 44 t '85 1 3 Others extend from '9 37 t 185 10 to 20 32s 185 5 ° 8 June 29. North. 5 20 10 20 54 185 3 2 t 185 24 185 3'4 U --- 3 °- N. 40 W. 24 19 52 r 9 5 * 4 ' 185 I 4 t 184 33 * , 84 334 ¥ July 1. S. 88 W. 85 19 55 * 19 54 * 183 44 264 182 524 183 584 h 2 s. 84 w. 82 20 24 20 34 182 *7 181 48 181 5 2 i 182 20 o - - 3 - N. 40 w. '9 19 4 8t >9 47 182 4 i 181 3 't 181 56 182 3 Turt eIsland. '9 464 l8-2 3 Reef off" it. •9 534 l8l S 8 s 4 S. 48 w. 29 20 6 20 44 i8r 4 '* 181 *T 181 48s 181 334 F , 5 - s. 62 w. 74 20 40 20 28s 180 3 °t '79 5 2 i ,80 334 180 24 S --.... 6 s. 72 w. 6Z 20 58E 20 554 179 27 178 424 '79 2 34 179 14 n 7 N. 86 w. 54 20 5 i 20 504 178 3 ° 177 50 178 3 't 178 2 ,4 r ----- 8. N. 77 w. 65 20 36J 20 36 s 177 23 176 44 '77 254 '77 154 h 9 - N. 7 1 w. 59 20 23 f 176 23 '75 41 '/6 224 176 i *4 0 IO. N. 47 w. 47 '9 5 * l 9 534 >75 46 '74 57 * '75 39 * '75 29 E -- 11. N. 24 w. 96 18 26 18 2 64 i 75 4 '74 25 * '75 7 4 174 57 -s - 12. N. 52 w 85 17 19 '7 204 *74 8 '73 374 ,74 ,8|- 174 9 8 - iZ- N. 41 w 70 16 2 7 t 16 254 * 73 20 172 5 '4 '73 28I '73 2 3 4 V 14. N. 45 w. to 15 43 15 394 ! ?2 35 172 °T ' 7 2 24 ,72 32-5- r - 15 ' N. 6 5 w. 69 1 5 104 15 94 171 3 ° 170 474 ' 7 ' 26s 171 204 6 __ 16. S. 89 w. 121 15 lit 5 I 69 25 16S 40 s 169 184 169 ' 3 ? 0 17 N. 81 w. 28 15 ot 14 59 * l68 56 168 42 " __ i 8. 8. 83 w. 34 *5 4 t *5 it ,68 21 167 3'4 168 IOf 168 4 t 19. S. 8 w. 24 15 24 t >5 12* 168 18 167 374 168 l64 168. 1 1 Aurora, j North End. South End. -4 15 52 24 168 ,i 68 '3 20| r 1 >/] 1 5 N.E.End. Leper s Island, £ s w . End '5 *5 1 64 3 ° 168 167 I Oi 45 * s 20. S. 65 E. 15 *5 i8i '5 2 84 168 32 167 4 ' t 168 168 15* j_ - 2 I S. 22 w. 89 16 4 t 16 1 7 i 168 12 167 27 168 9 * 168 >4 Whitsuntide Isle, ■ N S. End. End. 15 16 28s °4 ,68 ,68 2 it '9 Ambrym, j N I t W. £. End. End. 16 16 4 15 168 168 2 1 \ 3~2 Sandwich Harbour. 16 2 of 167 53 i? 2Z ,6 167 2 if 168 '34 167 57 ? Cape Sandwich 16 28 167 59 Mafkelyne's Islands, j 16 16 3 ° 334 167 it8 58* it Swell sets. The 'Friendly Hies. N. N. E.
ON BOARD THE RESOLUTION, 325 1774- O July 24. 2 5 ' 26 " Aug 20 21. 22. Course. Dis- tance. Miles Lautude South isy Account. Maslcelyne's Islands, Paoom, S. 2? E.l 26 lr6 48 . S South East End A P ae ' Z NorthWestEnd Three-Hill Island. Its western Hummock. Reef of its West End. Shepherd's Islands, 7 -7 1 7 i7 *7 17 i7 -7 17 17 ,8 18 18 18 18 18 18 ,8 18 18 18 -8 '9 1 9 l 9 l 9 1 9 20 19 -9 -8 16 3 2 i 33 30 59 53 * 39 4 5 8± 5 6 52 58 I if 3f 7 f J 3 * 4 ? i8i 31 29 53 25 26 °4 24 t 3°4 33 t 21 32 t 46 s 43 '* 4 i 36s 56 t Z6f i6f 3 8 i 32-4 ,6 3 1 10 24 334 184 23 t Longitude East By Account. By Watch K. By Observation. Corrected. 0 / 0 0 * 0 f 167 59 l 167 57 % 168 28s 168 27 168 26 s 168 37 [63 18 168 35 168 32 ,68 28s 168 4 >? ,68 42 . 168 43 ? 168 42 168 43 i 168 43 168 3 6 168 35 ? 168 38; 168 42 168 r T 168 534 168 374 168 53 168 0 168 52 168 4 * 168 20j 168 45 ? 168 38 168 3 H 169 42 168 42 169 42 \ 169 19s 170 22 169 94 169 3 °i 169 47 i 1 JO 34 169 28 170 I 5 i 170 6i 170 0 169 U 169 49 ? 169 424 169 53 168 55 ? 169 204 169 344 169 28 168 33 i 169 0 169 I 3 t 169 16 168 26 169 lof 169 24 169 201 169 26 169 9 169 28 169 38 168 474 169 J 7 i 169 18s 169 21 169 43 169 44 | 169 46 170 2 I 170 4 169 169 46 170 11 i8i 170 29 170 44 169 4 168 o 4 169 I It 168 4 7 ? 167 59 166 494 168 °4 ,67 354 Swell sets. iP ^
Z26 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS ' 774 - Course, Dis- tance. Latitude South Longitude East Swell sets. By Account. By Observation. By Account. By Watch iBy Obler- K. 1 vation. Cortected. 0 Miles. 0 ° 0 / 0 O r 0 Mallicola from J *5 53 *67 194 ib 38 *67 59 South Cape. 16 38 167 424 South West Cape. 16 3 1 167 364 St. Bartholomew's Island. *5 42 167 17*- S Aug. 24- N. ii E.| 70 15 164 15 234 168 11 166 464 167 57 4 *67 3 2 t Cape Quiros 14 56 167 20 V - 25. 33 W. 39 14 50 *4 55f 167 49 166 *9 t 167 304 167 24 r - 26, S. 69 E. 14 15 of -5 5 168 2 166 2 7 166 5*4 167 10 T ? 27. N. 14 W. 24 14 42 >4 39 + 167 55 166 1 it 167 34 *66 Z444 Cape Cumberland. *4 39f 166 47 o - 28 S, 60 w. 24 *4 5*4 14 5°t 167 34 *65 554 167 *34 *66 384 5 - 29 S. 49 w. 12 14 584 14 584 167 24 165 5* 166 50 166 34 $ 30 8. 10 w. *7 *5 154 *5 194 167 20 165 54i 166 *64 *66 374-7 s -- Zl- S. 27 E. 24 *5 41 *5 45 167 32 166 64 166 52 166 49s Cape Lisl burne. *5 40s *66 57 Table Island. 15 38 167 7 % Se pt 1. S - 35 W. 54 16 2 94 16 334 166 55 165 28 s 166 *64 166 1 if ¥ 2. S. 18 w. 88 *7 56 18 6f 166 23 164 421 165 3°4 165 2 54 T? - 3 S. 17 w. 55 18 59* r 9 34- 166 6 164 *5 *65 34 164 58 O - 4- S. 11 w. 52 19 50s *9 SOL 165 53 164 o4 *64 484 164 434 B -- 5- S. 10 w. 9 20 n 20 164 165 494 164 40s Pudyoua, orObferv y Island. 20 i84 164 4*4 Island Ballabea. 20 7 164 22 Cape Colenet. 20 3° 164 56 F -- 13- N. 23s W. 26 *9 54 l 9 534 i6 5 39 163 4-4 164 *74 164 26 s ■- 14. M. 27 w. 3i '9 26 *9 284 165 24 163 27 163 464 164 IOL - *5* N. 11 w. 22 *9 7 '9 *51 165 184 163 20i 163 4*4 >64 34 ¥ - 16. S. 47 E. 22 -9 3 1 l 9 344- 16 5 354 163 364 163 574 164 204 it - *7- S. 49 E. 26 -9 5'i *9 534 165 564 164 44 164 26 164 464. O 18. S. 49 E. 16 20 45 20 4 166 n4 * 65 1 B -- 19. S. 51 E. 33 20 24 20 26 166 364 165 284 F -- 20 S. 63 E. 27 20 36s 20 4i 167 2 165 44 165 254 165 48 8 21. S. 78 E. 20 20 45 i 20 544 167 23 165 244 166 74 166 84 ■V - 22. s. 42 E. 40 21 24s 21 2 5x 167 53 166 H 166 47 *66 45s ¥ - 23- s. 34 E. ! 3 1 21 52 21 534 168 *34 166 23-' 167 84 167 74 Cape Coronation. 22 5 167 8 h 24. s. 54 E-| 27 22 9i 21 594 168 374 166 42s 167 504 167 264 Q. Charlotte's Foreland. 22 *5 167 I2f o 25. S. 11 W. >7 22 *6f 22 IOi 168 334 166 38i 167 53 4 167 224 B 26 S. 54 E. 18 22 2 i 22 16 168 484 166 504 168 6 167 35 F 27. S. 67 E. 28 22 27 22 3 2 4 169 *64 167 84 168 234 167 5 2 4 L 28 S. 59 W. 22 22 434 22 444 168 544 166 454 168 04 167 29s Isle of Pines. 22 38 167 38 Of. 29 S. 29 W.I 20 |22 27 22 264 168 424 166 30; 167 2 8 t *67 *54 Botany Island. 22 264 167 16s ¥ 30 S. 18 E.| 7 | 2 2 334 22 344 168 45 166 344 167 424 167 18
ON BOARD THE RESOLUTION, 327 *774- Course, Distance. Latitude South Longitude East Ship rolls. Swell sets' by Account. By Ooser- vation. By Account. By Watch K. By Observation. Corrected. 0 Miks. O *' 0 0 0 0 * 0 1? Oct. 1. 8. 66 E. 58 22 58 2 2 56 T 169 43 ib7 33 k 168 305 168 ISA 4 O 2. S. 26 E. 52 2 3 19 7 23 i 9 t 170 33 1 68 471 169 5 6| 169 324 N. E. v 3• S. 28 E. 68 24 "9 t 24 4I l 7 ° 59 169 27I 170 364 170 13I N. E. § - 4 - S. 26 E. 81 25 17 25 28 171 44 170 31 171 404 171 174 S - 5- S. 9 E. 87 26 53! 26 53 171 59 170 50s 172 0 171 374 V -- 6. S. 4 E. 62 27 54i 27 52 172 3t 170 58s 172 4i 171 454 ¥ 7- S. 79 w. 3 27 52|- 27 52 172 of 170 57 172 3 171 45 1? 8. 3. 62 W. 7i 28 25* 28 244 170 49 169 42 k 171 3 k 170 31 O - 9- S. 5 8 w. 6Z 28 58 28 54; 169 48 168 351 168 574 169 24! v 10. S. 88 W. 57 28 48 28 57 t 168 42 167 21 168 14! 168 10 Norfolk Island. 29 iL 168 10 F n. S. 11 E. 23 29 20 29 214 168 47 167 19I 167 4i| 168 8 L -- 12. South. 100.7 3 1 H Zl ik 168 47 1 67 2f 167 30I 167 504 U IZ- 3 . 15 E. 106 32 43 k 32 541 169 21 167 35 168 26 168 22J ¥ - *4- S. 39 E. 87 34 2 34 24 170 26 168 414 169 174 169 284 b - -A- 3. 41 E. n 9 35 32 35 32 172 2 170 us 170 47s 170 564 O -- 16. S. 34 E. 140 37 28 37 33 173 42 171 55! 172 31s 172 404 D 1 . 17- 8. 28 E. 120 39 19 39 24 l 74 57 173 it 173 364 'i73 45i Q. Charlotte's Sound. 41 6 174 18/0 It being a matter curious in itself, and perhaps of some use, to know the greatest angle which a ship lies down to , when going on a wind, or that she rolls when going before it in a hi "h sea, I contrived whilst in the Sound, to fix 1 graduated circle to one of the beams of the ship that passed through my cabin: an axis, passing through the center, carried a long slender rod, which had a pretty large leaden ball fixed to its lower end, whilst the upper end, above the center, served as an index to point out the degree which the ship rolled to, on the circle . The axis moved smoothly in its locket, and just free enough to let the ball turn it as the ship rolled. The upper end of the rod was adjusted to point exactly to O when the ship was upright in the Sound; and for the remainder of this Journal I have added another column, wherein is inserted the degrees to which, at different times, I observed the above-mentioned index point to. ¥ Nov. 11. S- 33 k- 6 9 42 20s 42 214 175 29 175 224 174 544 175 154 \ h 12. 3. 2 2 E. 64 43 20J 43 13 k 176 2 175 5 °i 175 274 175 434 O 13 S. 39 E. 83 44 18 44 32 r/7 14 177 13 176 5°4 *77 6 J> - 14. 3. 41 E. 108 45 39 k 46 7 k 178 54 178 52 14 F .. 1 '■ 1 5- 4 7 5 47 4 7 k 181 iZz 181 114 180 49s 181 4 i 09 Z - 16. 3. 42 E. I24 49 i9s 49 33 k 183 39k 183 264 183 4r 183 194 22 It was this afternoon discovered, that the preceding differences between the log and observed latitudes were owing to the log-line having been marked, by mistake, a whole knot wrong: Corrected it. "4 - 17- S. 41 E. i 27 51 84 51 104 18.5 504 185 574 i g 5 35 t 185 5° 404 ¥ -- 18. 3. 50 E. 141 52 39 5 2 44T 188 454 188 584 188 364 [88 504 h 19. 3. 64 J E l 37 53 44-1 53 4ii 192 21 I '92 53 Q 20. 8. 76 E. i34 54 13 54 124 -96 44 197 24 144 " -- 21. 3. 30 E IOI 55 40 55 39 197 344 >98 59 - <? 22. 3. 85 E 118 55 5°? 55 484 201 44 203 44 192 42! 202 554 3 ° 4 i J
328 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS Dis- tance. Latitude South Longitude East * 774 - Course By Account. By Obier vation. by Ac* count. iy W atch K. 3 y Observation. Corrected. ' hip olL Swell sets. 0 Miles. 0 0 ° ' 0 "■" 0 0 ' y Nov. 23.1 V. 82 E. 45 55 42 35 424 102 24-r 104 49 IO4 264 104 39 i 33 •4- 24. ST. 86 E. 80 55 37 55 32s I04 47 207 18-L >06 5 bi toy 9 r 10 ¥- 2Z- ''J. 80 E. 141 55 7 - 4 . 35 94 208 49 21 I 55I 211 324 211 45 \ 14 h - 26. 'J. 89 E. 168.2 55 6 ? 55 6 213 42 2 16 53 ! 15 O -- 27. V. 89 E 183 55 2-1 55 3 :: 219 2 222 38 222 154 222 27! 13 D -- 28.. 3 . 82 E. 166 55 24 55 254 223 40 22 7 Mi N T . 87 E. 129 53 64 53 74 - 241 23I 245 224 245 O 245 io| 38 N. $ - 6. 3 . 89 E. 168 53 n 53 iof 246 3 * 249 324 249 io£ 249 20| 8 - 7 - 3 . 86 E. 120 53 19 53 294 53 194 249 23 252 45 252 * 7 * 252 32 ? N. E. ■4- 8. 3 . 84 E 99 53 3 1 252 7 2 55 24 255 i4 2 55 I 1 4- 9 - 3 . 89 E. 76 53 324 53 37 t 254 -7 257 17 14 W. T? -- 10. 8. 70 E 64 53 59 t 53 534 2 55 58 259 6z 258 444 258 53 © - 11. N. 87 E 180 53 494 33 374 261 3 264 2f 263 41 263 49 D -- 12. 53 42 53 244 265 2 268 4j 267 30 267 5o4 $ - I 3 < N. 89 E. 74 53 24 53 234 267 5 270 94 270 39 269 55* 8 - 14. 8. 89 E. 127.3 53 26 53 25s 270 41 2 73 274 273 574 273 134 4 - !5- 8. 87 E. 120 53 3 H 53 Zok 274 5 276 49i 277 19I 27b 35 % - 16, N. 88 E. i3 2 ! 53 254 53 26s 2 77 5 ° 280 324 283 414 281 24 280 184 h - 17 - N. 884 E. 118 53 24; 53 214 281 4 284 11 283 26s Cape Jilieac a. 53 44 285 42 O - 18. 8. 72 E.|i 14 153 57 54 12s 284 9 286 474 287 l 64 28B 3-4 Cape Noir. 54 3 2 4 28$ 564 r- 19. S* 55 E 100 55 ioi 55 2 °t 286 29 289 !6^ 289 454 289 o4 $ - - 20. S- 57 E 36 55 394 55 39 ^ 287 22 290 74 290 364 289 5i4 Christmas Sound. 55 22 289 584 8 - - 28. 55 324 287 444 290 264 290 1 84 290 54 St. Iidefonso's Istes. 55 5i 290 32 Cape Horn. 55 59 292 34 Barnevelt's Istes. 55 49 293 2 Evout's Isles. 55 34t 3 6 s 293 1 n - 29 8. 78 E . 92 55 4 3 j 55 43 * 7 290 32 293 444 - 2 93 293 9 A- ? - - Zo Nt. 26 E . 26 55 20 -' 54 53 290 56 295 20-5 -295 134 294 594 Cap e Success. 55 - 294 33 Success Bay. 54 49 ? 294 35 Halt Cape ot Land. Staten j 54 534 295 13 ? Cape St. Anthony. 54 464 46 Cape St. Diego. 54 33 294 h - - 31 . N. 88 E -1 23 154 5 2 ' f 54 42 t 291 46 296 4^ ^ 2 95 567 1 295 43 i
ON BOARD THE RESOLUTION 329 I 774- Course. Distance. Latitude South 1 Longitude Ealt Ship rolls. By Account, By Observation. By Account. By Watch K. By Ooser- vation. Corrected. Swell sets. 0 Miles. 0 * O / Year's I lie. 54 41 295 46 New Year's Harbour. 54 4844- 295 49 Cape St. Juan. 54 474 296 13 1775. 318 53 324 94 323 264 323 484 39 Sounded: no ground with 120 fathoms. Cape Dilappointment. 54 58 32 3 45 Green Isles. 54 59 323 45 Pickerlgill's Island. 54 424 323 2 Clerke's Isles. 55 54 325 -8 J? - 21. S. 75 E. 48 55 161 55 164 320 13 325 434 325 04 325 224 O - 22. N. 32 E. 21 54 59 54 594 320 32 325 364 D - 23. S. 63 W. 15 55 54 55 64 320 9 325 84 Sounded : and hat 60 and 73 fathoms ; bottom sliells. F - 24. N. 54 E.| 10 154 594155 1 1320 24 | 32Z -84
©,y'+0.|=;*>C 0 "tt'0'3 1+0 -£* X +0 ^ ** °* wO- 28. S. 59 E. 33 59 5 8 t 60 5f 324 56s 33° 55* 330 5°i 330 34f -29. N. 58 W. *3 59 57 60 if:: 324 3*t 33° 13* --Zo- N. 30 E. 3 l 59 347 59 34 325 2f 33° 49* Friezland's Peak. 59 2 333 47 Cape Bristol. 59 24- 333 9 South Thule. 59 34 332 15 -Zl- N. 6 9 E. 59 59 J 3i 59 i2-z 326 48s 333 14 332 56 332 4°t Feb. 1. N. 3 E, 46 58 264 5 8 25 326 537 333 6f 333 1 332 45t Sounded: No ground with 160 fathoms. Cape Montagu. 58 33 333 14 -- 2. N. 3 E.| 37 57 47 57 46 326 58 333 29 333 2z4 333 8 Sounded : No ground with 220 fathoms. Saunders's Isle. 58 O 333 2 -- 3- N. 8 E.| 31 I57 16s 57 lA 327 6 333 8 Candlemas Isles. 57 332 47 - 4. N. 52 E. 39 5 6 474- 56 44 328 7 334 34* 33 4 29 334 13* N. W. - 5. S. 72 E. 68 57 5 7 9- 330 4 t 336 3'4 336 26s 336 107 -6. S. 39 E. 88 58 18 58 19 331 48t 337 5b7 -7. S. 88 E. 116 58 2 24- §8 24s 335 33t 342 54 342 of 34i 447 -8. S. 81 E. 106 58 40 58 294 33 8 53-- 345 27 345 2 if 345 6 -- 9- N. 8 5 E. 47 58 26 58 26s 340 23-4 347 54 347 Of 346 447 --- 10. N. 814- F, 76 5 8 "5 5 8 15 342 57i 349 3 2 4 349 27 349 11 i -- I X. S. 89 E. 80 58 16 Z 8 64- 345 274 352 11? 352 6 35i 50f -- I 2. S. 81 E. 27 58 11 58 204- 346 20 353 324 353 264 353 1 if S. E. --> 13. N. 66 E. 59 57 5 6 t :7 564 348 1 355 34 355 2 81 355 13 12 West. -- 14. N. 75 E. x 20 57 234 57 234 351 47 359 351 359 3 o" 359 Mt 37 East. -14. N. 7 5 i E. 157 56 434 56 37 356 35 4 204 4 *5* 3 59t Dropped 360° and repeated a day. ■- 1 5* N. 40 E. 82 55 34 t 55 26-g- 35 8 154 6 2 5 564 5 4i -16. N. 17 E. 58 54 3 * * 54 3-4 35 8 45 6 22f 6 164 6 it --- N. 854 E. 98 54 2Z4 54 2 3 t 1 35 8 5 8 4 8 374 8 371 North. - 18. East. in.3 54 24 54 23s 4 47 11 56s -19. N T . 74 E. 35 54 134 54 '1 5 45 1 3 --- 20. S. 85s E >°5 5 4- 212 54 i 5 t 8 45 16 2 9 i 16 18f 16 &T N. E. -- 21 S. 85 s E. 82 54 22 54 24-4 11 b 18 55 i 18 334 18 34+ -22. S. 69 E. 118 55 7 55 10 4 14 2X 22 ioi 22 2 21 5° S. by W. -23 N. 61 E 101 54 2l4 -54 26 16 54 24 39 18 -24 N. 31 E 106 52 564 52 51? 18 304 26 52; 26 6 26 3 i 4 -- 25 N. 29 E 148 50 421 5° 33- 20 334 29 c>2 28 19! 28 40 -26 N. 31 E 88 49 l8 49 204 21 43- 30 17* 29 45i 29 57 i - - 27 .El. 47 E 97 48 15 147 5 8 t 23 574 3 1 53t -28 N. 57 E 82 47 13^4-6 5 8 * 26 124 34 xo4 j 33 38* 33 5°4 S.E.b.E. i i
ON BOARD THE RESOLUTION. 33c 1775 • Course. Dis- tance. Latitude South Latitude East Ship tolls. Swell sets. By Account. By Observation, By Account* By Watch K. By Observation. Corrected. 0 MiJes. 0 0 ° 0 ° 0 g March i. N. 71 W. 92 46 28^ 46 28 24 io£ 3* 454 % - 2. N. 30 W. 63 45 33i 45 32 t 23 25 31 *54 30 434 3° 56 39 ¥ - 3- N. 25 w. IOO 44 2i 43 53 t 22 20 30 74 29 354 29 474 E. S. E. h - 4- N. 85 w. 52 43 49 43 461 21 8 29 94 28 374 28 494 E. S. E. O -- 5- N. 59i w - 73 43 46i 43 49 4 -9 27 27 33 27 1 27 *34 E. S. E. D 6. N. 9 W. 79 42 3*4 42 2 31 *9 7 27 33i 26 594 27 *44 East. F - 7- N. 52 w. 41 4i 59 41 48Z 18 24 26 44l 26 26 25 N. E. S -- 8. 8. 62 w. 3* 42 3 41 47 t l 7 47 26 134 25 404 25 54 t V 9 S. 71 w. 46 42 24 42 6 16 49 25 i8| 24 .454 25 0 ¥ - IO. N. 31 w. 78 40 591 40 564 15 55 24 234 23 5*4 24 4 t East. h n. N. 58 w. 47 40 3 2 40 3 *5 2 23 59 23 264 23 404 0 - 12. N. 11 w. 42 39 22 38 504 14 50 24 34 t 24 24 24 164 r *3- N. 45! w. 121 37 2 5i 37 i8p r3 10 22 504 22 18* 22 324 $ 14 N. 15 E. 76 ,36 5 3 6 27s *3 35 22 33 22 04 22 *54 Sounded: 80 fathoms, stony ground. L - - - *5- N. 17 E. 62 135 28 I35 16 14 2 22 344 22 24 22 *74 Sounded, and Had 56 fathoms. n 16. N. 47 W. 27 34 571134 49 *3 38 22 *44 22 204 21 574 Saw land. Sounded and had 40 fathoms. ? -. *7- S. 72 W.| 50 [35 41135 2 12 43 21 20 39 20 534 East, Sounded, and had 50 fathoms. h 18. N. 83 w. 9 35 04 '34 594 12 33 20 53 i 20 22 20 36 0 - 19. N. 83 w. 23 34 57 34 514 12 5 20 20* 19 484 20 4 T> .--- 20. N. 61 w. 93 34 6| 34 *3 10 25s l8 I2i 17 404 *7 564 Cape Town. 33 55! 18 234 ? April 28. N. 58 W. 101 33 32 5° 16 4i l6 194 16 *94 T? - 29. N. 57 W. 140 3 1 33! 3 1 3 1 14 23 13 47 *3 47 O go- N. 58 w. 127 30 24? 3° 174 12 *7 I I 3*4 11 3*4 D May 1. N. 51 W. 98 29 16 29 12 10 49 9 554 9 554 F 2. N. 51 W. 95 28 12 28 I If 9 25 8 23 8 23 8 -- 3 N. 50 w. 101 27 54 27 I 7 49i 6 58 7 74 6 58 n 4 N. 38 w. 35 26 3*4 26 34 7 25 6 364 6 2 9 t 6 36s f - 5- N. 36 w. 39 26 nl Oi 26 2 6 59 h 6. N. 45fW. 86 25 ii 1 3 25 0$ 5 5i 4 56 4 49 4 5 6 0 - 7- N. 44 W. 122 23 33 23 27s 4 12 3 ^94 3 29s 3 *94 i - 8 N. 44 w. 110 22 8 22 5 2 46 1 49 2 44 1 49 <? . 9 N. 48 w. ioq 20 5*1 20 46; 1 *3 0 *4? 0 23 0 I4f West. Well. 8 - 10. N. 48 w. 9* -9 44+ l 9 39 0 5 0 584 0 4 94 0 584 - 11. N. 47 W. 78 18 46s 18 52^ 1 05 2 94 2 2 5 2 9i ? - 12. N. 48 w. 37 ,8 28| 18 27s 1 35 2 41 2 *54 2 4' h --- 13- N. 42 w. 60 17 43 * 7 434 2 19 3 *9 2 534 3 *9 North. O - 14 N. 42 w. 75 16 47 16 464 3 12 4 194 4 9i 4 *94 N. E. i *5 N. 52 W. 72 16 3 16 *4 4 *3 5 16-j 5 *b4 St. Helena. r5 554 5 49 J 22. N, 55 W. 47 15 28 15 24 6 29s 6 284 7 22; 6 294 i
332 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS 1775 Course. Dis- tance. Latitude South Longitude West Ship rolls. Swell sets, By Account. b), Observation. Hy Account. By Watch K. By Obler- vatian. Corrected. 0 Miles. 0 ✓ 0 ° ' 0 0 O May 23. N. 58 W. 104 14 29 14 33 ? 8 1 8 1 8 384 8 1? 8 -- 24. N. 58 w. 134 13 22f l 3 3 °l 9 58 9 54 10 7 ? 9 54 ? - 25. N. 29 w. 129 11 38 11 42? 11 3 11 21 11 3 i? 11 3 . S - 26. N. 23 w. 123 9 49 ? 9 55 ^ 0 - 11 55 11 56 t 12 254 11 574 h --- 2 7 * N- 36 w. "7 8 21 8 224 i 3 3 13 3 l 13 32s 13 3 t O 28. N. 70 w. 68 7 57 ? 7 58-r 14 7 14 11? 14 40 14 1 It Ascension. 7 57 14 3° n June i. N. 44 W. 81 6 57 6 59? 15 27 15 31? 15 74 15 3o4 s - 2. N. 83 W. 95 6 48 6 43 i 17 2 17 19I 17 5r 17 174 h - 3- N. 82 W. 116 6 27? 6 26s 18 58 19 28 '9 234 19 25 G - 4- N. 81 W. 125 6 7 6 21 2 21 39 21 4t 21 35 D 5- N. 80 w. 121 5 395 5 39 23 2 23 49 23 15? 23 43 F - 6. N. 78 w. 129 5 12 4 5 8* 2 5 9 26 74 2 5 44 26 o4 8 7- N. 78 w. 85 4 5-? 4 574 26 32 27 564 27 31? 27 48s n - 8. N. 49 w. 92 3 57 3 44 27 42 29 40 29 23? 29 3°4 s - 9- S. 88 w. 110 3 5° I 3 43t 29 32 32 14? 3i 44? 32 4t Island Ferdinando de 7 56F Noronha. z 3 3 2 23 10. N. 12 E 99 2 6 1 57 29 10 32 19? 32 20f 32 74 © - 11. N. 16 E. 97 0 234 0 ni 28 5° 32 K>4 32 214 31 574 North. North. 5 - 12. "4. 19 E. 128 1 5oi 1 5 °t 28 8 31 514 3 1 384 3i 374 " - 13- N - 5? E. 93 3 23 3 49? 27 59 3i 48 3i 35 31 33f 8 - 14. N. 31 W. 46 4 29 4 3 1 28 23 3i 404 3i 274 3i 25 is is- N. 20 E. 68 5 33 5 38 27 59 30 59 3° 46 3° 43 r -.- 16. N. 27 E. 3 2 6 I? 6 9? 27 44? 30 3i? 3° 18s 30 15 -7- N. 25 W. 13 6 2li 6 13 27 48 30 19 3° 6 30 2 G 18. N. 19 W. i 6 6 284 6 I2t 27 481 30 28s 30 15? 3° 11 v - 19. N. 11 E. 43 6 544 7 8i 27 39 30 3 It 3° i?4 3° 134 South. r - 20 N. 40|W. 8o| 8 9 8 ICt 28 32 3i 17? 3 r 25I 3 ° 59 South. 8 21. [N. 45 W. i°9l 9 27? 9 285 29 50? 32 584 32 534 32 394 South. - 22. N. 39 w. *33 11 12 3 1 '5? 34 12 4 34 74 33 524 S - 2A. N. 34 w. 122 12 53i 32 25 3.5 271 35 225 35 74 1? - 24. N. 30 w. 103 14 24? 14 37^ 33 17? 36 28s 36 23? 36 74 S. by E. © - 25- N. 27 w. H4§ 16 20i 34 ii? 37 3i4 37 264 37 10 r - 26. N. 37 l w. Il8 *7 545 17 53t 35 28 38 464 38 4i4 38 24t F - 27. N. 25 w. 103 '9 27 19 3*?-' 36 16 39 294 39 244 39 7t 8 2 8. N. 17 w. II 4 21 20 A 36 S 2 40 6 40 1 39 44 V - - - 29. N. 11 w. 111 23 loA 37 15 40 28 40 23 40 54 $ 3°- N. 14 w. 120 2-Z 65 25 9I 37 46 s 41 Si 41 0? 40 434 v July 1. N. i 5 w. 11 Si 27 4 t 38 21 41 3°r 40 58 41 74 o 2. N. 5 w. 98 28 42 38 3 1 41 5 2 ? 4i 7? 41 294' a '3 N. 28 E. 88 29 59? 37 44 41 185 40 154 40 554 West. s - 4 N. 15 E. 82 3i 1 84 37 19 40 5°t 39 52? 40 2/4 8 5 N. 11 t. 75 3? 3i? 37 2 40 3i? 39 344 40 74 ■4 6 N. 2 E 361 33 84 37 0? 40 2ii 39 12 j 39 574 ■ - .
(jc- o ON BOARD THE RESOLUTION. 332 * 775 • S July 7. -8 D - 10. <?-II. S-12. V - I 3- S - 19. 2;-20. ? - - - 2 1 . 7 ? - 22 , o -23. v - 24. <? -- 25. s -26. V -27. r-28. b -29. Dis- Latituc e North Longitu de Wtst Course tance. By Account. By Observation. By Account. By Watch IC. By Observation. Corrected. Ship rolls. Swell 0 iVMes. O ' ° ° O O ' 0 ' N. 3 E. 25 8; 33 324 36 59 40 84 39 20 39 44t East. N. 11 E. 35 34 34 12 36 5i 40 7-4 39 26 - 39 43 4 N. 1 9 E. 45 34 501 35 3 36 324 40 104 39 29 * 39 467 V N. 46 E. 68§ 35 5 °i 35 454 35 33 39 144 38 334 38 5°4 N. 6Z E 154 36 55-\- 32 43 36 214 35 40 s 35 57* N. 62 E. 165 38 I2f 38 124 29 40 33 64 32 26 32 42 -i N. 83 E. 133 38 27 38 294 26 53 30 9l 29 28s 29 45* Villa de Horta, Fayal. 38 324 28 324 N. 59 E. 43 38 54 38 52 24 5 84 28 34 2 7 40 N. 76 E. 100 39 184 39 *34- 22 53* 25 564 25 57 4 25 33* South N. 79i E. 79 39 26-4 39 264 21 *3* 24 15 24 35* 23 324 N. 81 E. 57 39 35x 39 374 -9 58s 22 594 22 39* 22 38 East. N. 51 E. 128 40 58 40 48 i l 7 47* 20 3 6 * 20 11 20 14* N. 49 E. 129 42 18I 42 6f 15 384 18 3i 18 5* 18 84 S. E. N. 39 E. 124 43 43 43 40s *3 5i 16 444 16 *9* 16 234 N. 36 E *43 45 36 11 52 14 224 *3 57* 14 2*- N. 46 E. 158s 47 16 47 164 9 5 11 274 11 U 11 74 N. 59 E. 114s 48 *54 48 9* 6 40 8 58 8 32* 8 384 N. 57* E. 176 49 43 49 37* 2 55 5 94 4 434 4 504 %* In the preceding Journal, the course and distance put down in the second and third columns are those made good for the whole day ; the variation of the compass, and common quantity of lee-way, under the circumstances the ship then was, being only allowed for; currents, and heave of the sea, as it is usually called, being not taken into the account, except for a few weeks after we left England. These things, I conceived, would be determined with greater certainty, both as to quantity and quality, by comparing the reckoning, kept entirely without them, with those deduced from Observations, and the Watch, or Time-keeper made by Mr. Kendall; Indeed, I did not fee how otherwise to make my dead reckoning account of any real use, as my judgment, in making allowance for these things, could not have the least weight even to confirm that of such skilful and experienced navigators as Captain Cook, Mr. Gilbert, and other Officers of the Resolution. It therefore became my business to endeavour at making my labours useful, though in a less degree, by adopting a different plan ; and am willing to hope I have done it with some success, especially as I was very careful in observing, as often as possible, both the variation of the compass, and the lee-way which the ship made, from time to time. I have also endeavoured to distinguisii between what was effected by a current, and what was the effect of a swell, by mentioning the latter, as often as one was observed, and the point of the compass towards which it set, in a small column on the right hand side of the page. ! The fourth and sixth columns contain the latitude and longitude of the ship, deduced from the above-mentioned course and distance, on the noon of the civil day; or that where the nautical day ends, and the astronomical day begins : The latitude, so computed, is only carried on from observation to observation; that is, in general, only from noon to noon, as I always took the
33 + ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS. latitude observed the day before, when I had one, for the latitude departed from ; but the longitude is kept on, without any correction whatsoever, from one place to the next where we anchored, and stopped long enough for me to determine the longitude properly, or where it had been well settled before by other persons. The fifth column contains the observed latitude when there was an observation ; and when there was not, the latitude determined, in the best manner I could, by the log and subsequent observations. Those latitudes which were actually observed, may be readily known by turning to the Observations, page 223 to page 280. Columns seven and eight contain the longitudes of the ship, as shewn by Mr. Kendall's Watch, and Mr. Arnold's (N°. 3.), until Mr. Arnold's Watch stopped, after which that column is discontinued. The last column but two exhibits the longitude resulting from the last lunar observation, carried on to the time by Mr. Kendall's Watch; except from our leaving England to the 13th of September, 1772, when it was carried on by the log, the disadvantage of which was soon discovered ; and the last but one contains, what is esteemed to have been, the true longitude of the ship each day at noon, and also the longitudes of all the lands we saw in the voyage, as well as of the more remarkable Capes, Headlands, and Bays in them ; the general method of deducing which was as follows: I reduced all the longitudes resulting from the observations of the Moon's distance from the Sun and fixed Stars made between the times of new and full Moon, to the time of the full Moon, by means of Mr. Kendall's Watch, and took the mean : I reduced, in like manner, all the observed longitudes taken between the full and change, to the same time, and took the mean of these also: the mean of these two means were taken for the true longitude of the strip at that time. In the same manner were all the longitudes observed between the full and change, and also between the change and next full moon, reduced to the time of the change, and their mean taken for the true longitude of the ship at that time: and in this manner was the longitude of the ship ascertained, once a fortnight, generally by a mean of 30 or 40, and sometimes even 50 and 60 observations. The longitudes in the intermediate times were deduced from these by means of the Watch. In some instances, indeed, where I have had sufficient reasons, the longitudes are taken from the Watch itself, as in our run from the Cape of Good Hope to the Island of St. Helena, although the observations would at all times have given the same longitude within a very few miles, as will readily be seen -, and I have also paid proper regard to the situations of places settled by those who have gone before me, where the authorities were such as could be depended on. Lastly, I have to observe that the length of the log-line was carefully kept, by frequent comparisons, to such proportion with the half-minute glass, as 49 \ feet have to 30 seconds.
METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS MADE On Board His Majesty's Sloop RESOLUTION, In her late Voyage on Discoveries towards the South.

ON BOARD THE RESOLUTION.- 337 1772. Morn. Noon. Even. Winds. Weather, &c. Therm Barom. Therm I'he O June 2 1. s. w. Moderate wind, clear, and hot weather. 5 - 22. Almost calm, and very hot. <f - 2Z. Easterly. Light breezes, flying clouds, and very hot. 8-24. Southerly. Brisk wind, and flying clouds. U - 25. Variable. Little winds, and ditto. r - 26. Ditto. Light breezes, and ditto. h-- 27. Westerly. Ditto. 0-28. Variable. Little wind, and cloudy weather. D- 29. Ditto. Ditto, and thin clouds. <?-ZO. Northerly. Light breezes, and hazy weather. 8 July 1. Ditto. Ditto. u-2. Z6z Ditto. Ditto, and fine weather. ? - 3 Cloudy, with showers. " - 13. 61 30 , 3 l 6' k Westerly. Moderate wind, and cloudy, with rain at times. <?-14. 601 3.29 62 63 Ditto. Little wind, and foggy weather. 8-lA- 59 64 N.N.E. Moderate wind, and cloudy weather. if --16. 6i§ 3°, 18 611 63 N. W. Ditto, and sine weather. ?-17. 63I 70 70 s. w. Brisk wind, and hazy. h-18. 64 65 NT. W. Squally, with clouds, and rain at times. O-19. 63 30,05 64s N. W. Brisk wind, and cloudy. v-20. 63 29,97 66 Variable. Ditto, and foggy, with rain. $ - 2 1. 60 30,08 66 S.W. Little wind, and hazy weather. 8 - 22. 65 s 69 North. Ditto. 4 - 23. 641 N. E. Brisk wind, and flying clouds. ? - 24. 65I 66| Ditto. Ditto, h-25. 67? 30,3 70 73 Ditto. Ditto, and cloudy. Tried Dr. Land's wind gage, (See Philol oph. Transact, vol. lxv. p. 343.) but could not find that the wind had any sensible effect on it. At the time we had as much wind as we could well carry top-gallant fails to. O - 26. 68f 30,2 725 74 N. E. Moderate wind, and cloudy. D - 27. 69? 72 7 i Variable. Ditto, and fine weather. <f - 28. 7 30,1 7 2 f 74 Ditto. Very little wind, and fine weather. 8 - 29. 72 30,18 77 i Ditto. Little wind, showers, and fine weather. 4-30. 76 Ditto. Moderate wind, and hot weather. ¥ - 3 s - 72s Ditto. Ditto, and showers, with flying clouds. Tj Aug. I. 72s Ditto. Brisk wind, and flying clouds. 0 - 2, 75k N. E. Ditto, and cloudy, with showers. 9 - 3 - 73 30,13 77 Ditto. Ditto, and cloudy. F - - 4 - 72 30,08 75 7 6 k Variable. Moderate wind, and very hazy. 8 -5 - n 3 °,* 76 77k East, Ditto, and foggy. 4-6. 7 4 30,1 78 7 8 i N. E. Ditto, and cloudy. ¥-7 - 741 30,15 79 79k East. Ditto. h - 8. 73 3 °,1 79 N. E. Moderate wind, and hazy. 0- 9 76 30,08 78 Ditto. Brisk wind, and cloudy. v-10. 75 i 3 0 ,o 5 79 Ditto. Ditto, and hazy weather. $ - 11. 78 30,0 82 N. E. byN. Moderate wind, and hazy. 8-12 80 30,02 80 Ditto. Ditto, and showers. 4 - 13. 30,08 82 83s N. E. Ditto, and fine weather.
338 METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS 1772. Morn. Noon. Therm. Barom. Therm. ¥ Aug. 14. 79 3°,12 8 I h -- 15. 78 * 29,92 8o§ To-day we lost the 1 without flattening O - 16. 80 29,92 8l v -17. 79 29, Q2 80 -24. 78 29,95 79 $ 2Z- 791 3 °,o 5 80! 2 -- 26. 78 29,92 76s V -27. 78 29,97 8 of ¥ - 28. 771 30,10 77 h -29. 77 30,2 78 O - 30 . 76 30,02 77 D -31. 7 6 i 30,07 78s $ Sept. 1 - 77 30,0 79 2 -- 2. 76 29,92 78 rf -3. 7 Si 30,05 76 ¥ -4. 7 4 30,05 75 -- 5 - 73 f 30,04 76 & 5 n ? t? o 5 $ s Vr ? 1? o - 6 . - 7 - - 8 . 9 - 10. 11. 12 . rz- 14. i 5 - 16 . 17. 18. !9 20. Even. Therm. Winds. 8r 79 i 8 oi 8of 79 r ( 19 . E. IN. E. byN. South. S. W. Ditto. n. w: S.W. Ditto. Ditto. Ditto. Ditto. Ditto. Ditto. Ditto. Ditto. Ditto. South. Ditto. Ditto. Ditto. Ditto. Variable. S. W. Weather, Le. Moderate wind, and fine weather. Brisk wind, with rain. hich veered round, by the E. to the S. E. Moderate wind, and hazy weather. Ditto, and cloudy. Little wind, and very hazy. Moderate wind, and cloudy, with showers. Little wind, and exceeding heavy rain. Squally, with rain. Brilk wind, and cloudy. Moderate wind, and cloudy. Ditto. Moderate wind, and hazy. Ditto, and cloudy, with showers. Ditto, and hazy. Ditto, and fine weather. Ditto. Ditto. Ditto. Ditto. Ditto, and cloudy. Ditto. Ditto, and fine weather. Ditto. This morning 1 down a Thermometer, suspended in the middle of a strong wooden caTe, of such a construction as to let the water pass freely through it in its descent, but which shut close the instant it began to be drawn up. By this means the Thermometer was brought up in a body of water of the fame heat with that it had been let down to. The Thermometer stood at 75 s in the open air, at 74 in the water at the surface, and at 66 when drawn up from the depth of 85 fathoms, where it had lain 20 minuses, and we were seven and a half drawing it 7 4 t 75 75 -i 7 -ii 74 i- 74 75t 74 75 73 73 724 73 7o4 72 3 °,° 75 South. 30,07 77 Ditto. ZO,i 76 Ditto. 30,1 75 S. E. 30,05 75 Ditto. 30,12 76 Ditto. 30,1 76s Ditto. ZO,t 76 Ditto. 30 ,t 5 76s 77 Ditto. 30,02 77 Ditto. ZO ,-7 73 Ditto. 30,'7 73 * Ditto. 3°,15 73 * Ditto. 30,'7 72s Ditto. 30,22 72s Ditto. Moderate wind, and fine weather. Ditto. Ditto. Ditto. Ditto. Ditto. Ditto. Moderate wind, and cloudy. Ditto, and fine weather. Ditto, and cloudy. Ditto. Ditto. Squally, with rain sometimes. Brilk wind, and cloudy, with showers. Moderate wind, and fine weather.
ON BOARD THE RESOLUTION. 339 1772. Morn. Therm. Noon. Even. Therm Winds. Weather, &c. ; Baroni, 1 herm. 3 ) Sept. 21. 7 1 3°,i2 7* S. E. Moderate wind, and fine weather. 3 72 Ditto, Moderate wind, and cloudy. ¥ -25. 30,3 70s East. Brisk wind, and cloudy, with showers. J? -- 26. 69 30,35 73 73T Ditto. Little wind, and fine weather. The Thermometer stood at 72s in the open air, at 70 in the water at the surface, and at 68 when drawn up from a depth of 80 fathoms, where it had lain 15'; and we had been seven minutes drawing it up. s - 27. 69s 30,32 74 East. Little wind, and fine weather. D -- 28. 69 30,25 72 N. E. Ditto. <? - 29. 67 30,22 7 1 North. Moderate wind, and fine weather. 8 3 °- 69s 30,12 7"f 67 s Variable. Brisk wind, and cloudy. Oct. 1. 7 1 South. Moderate wind, and flying clouds. ¥ --- 2. 65 s 65s S. W. Ditto. h - 3 - 63 s 30,3 671 Ditto. Brisk wind, and cloudy. O 4 - 62i- 30,15 62 Variable. Moderate wind, and cloudy. v ' 5- 59 30,41 61 S. E. Ditto, with drizzling rain. J -- 6. 30,4 6if East. Ditto, and cloudy. 8 7- CO 30,42 601 Ditto. Squally, unsettled weather. % -8. 59 30,4 62 Ditto. Brisk wind, and cloudy, with rain. 2 - - q. 59 3 o ,4 61 N. E. Brisk wind in squalls, and very hazy. h -10. 59 30,37 62 Ditto. Moderate wind, and hazy : showers. O - - 11. 5 9 f 30,25 63s Ditto. Moderate wind, and fine weather. The Thermometer stood at 60f in the open air, at 59 in the water at the surface, and at 57 when drawn up from the depth of 100 fathoms; where it had lain 20', and we had been six drawing it up. B -- 12. 30,35 63 N.E. Little wind, and fine clear weather. F iZ- 60 30,27 65s Ditto. Moderate wind, and cloudy. 8 14. 61 3 °, 1 61 North. Ditto. V - 15. 58 30,02 62 Ditto. Moderate wind, and fine weather. ¥ - 16. 59 30,05 61 West. Brisk wind, and foggy weather. h r?- 57 30,05 59 S. W. Ditto, and flying clouds. O - 18. 30,1 6ot Variable. Moderate wind, and cloudy. $ -19. 54 i 30,17 57 58 East. Little wind, and cloudy. F -20. 30,35 62s Ditto. Ditto, and clear weather. 8 - 21. 6of 30,37 63 Ditto. Ditto. V - 22. 58 30,2 60 61 N. E. Little wind, and cloudy, with rain at times. ¥ -23. 58 29,95 63 West. Little wind, and cloudy. h 24 - 5 6 30,07 59 South. Brisk wind, and fine weather. O -25. 54 30,17 58 S. E. Moderate wind, and cloudy. v - 26. 58 30,07 60 Ditto. Ditto. F - 27. 59 29,9 6ot Variable. Moderate wind, and hazy weather. 8 - 28. 64 29,9 67 N. W. Little wind, and cloudy. V - 29. 29,81 6i| North. Moderate wind, with drizzling rain. ¥ -3°. 61 29,83 6oi- N. W Cloudy, with rain at times. J? - 31. Ditto. Brisk wind, and cloudy weather. 4 s
3+0 METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS 1772. Morn. Noon. Even. Winds. Weather, &c. rhtrm. Barom. I Therm therm. O Nov. 1. 63 N. W. frisk wind, and cloudy, with showers. D >-- 2. 6l | N. W. Ditto, and mostly cloudy. F- 3- 6of N. W. Moderate wind, and fair weather. S - 4- 30'34 6i£ Variable. Ditto, and variable weather. % - 5* 30,24 65 Southerly. Ditto. ? - 6. 30,l9 66 Ditto. Moderate wind, and fine weather. h -- 7- 66f 30,>7 7i 66 Ditto. 8risk wind, and squally weather. O- 8. 62 30,>4 68 6z4 N. W. Little wind, and flying clouds. r - 9- 62s 30,15 64 6g4 N, W. Moderate wind, and dying clouds. F - 10. 59i 30,3 62s 60 Variable. Little wind, and fine weather. S - 11. 59 30,22 64s N. W. Moderate wind, and cloudy, weather. % - 12. 62 s 30,24 65 61 N. W. Ditto, and fine weather. r - iZ- 6z Z0,26 64s 65 N. W. Ditto. - 14. 60 J 30,33 65* 6zt Variable. Ditto. 0- *5- 58I 30,19 66 Ditto. Ditto. $ - . 16. Ditto. Ditto. 22. 72 72 N. W. Moderate wind, and cloudy. D -- 23. 62 29,8 65 Variable. Brisk wind, and cloudy, with showers. F- 24. 62 30,1 6 34 S.E. Moderate wind, and clear weather. -- 25- 62 30,0 64 8. E. Brisk wind, and cloudy. 4- 26. 66i 29,8 69t West. Moderate wind, and cloudy. 5- 27. 53 30,02 524 Variable. Ditto, and flying clouds. T?- 28. 541 29,85 59* N. W. Strong wind in squalls, with rain. In the midst of this heavy gale I tried Dr. Lind's Wind-gage, and the water in it was depressed by the force of the wind -/A of an inch. O - 29. 524 29,6 5i N.W. b.W. Strong wind, and squally, with hail and rain. 5 -- 30. 52 29,62 55 N.W. b. W. Strong wind in squalls, and rain. The water in Dr. Lind's Wind-gage depressed -AV of an inch in the squalls. F Dec. 1. 52 29,23 I 5i 1 47 I Westerly. lStrong wind, and cloudy, with rain. Dr. Lind's Wind-gage funk J4 of an inch in the squalls. Z --- 2. 46 29,3 49* 48 N. W. Strong wind, and soggy weather. 4- Z- 47 * 29,22 49 N. W. Brisk wind, and flying clouds. F -- 4- 43 * 29,55 44t N. W. Moderate wind, and hazy. h - 5- 504 29,7 48 Variable. Brisk wind, and hazy. O- 6 3 29,52 38 Variable. Strong wind, and cloudy. D- 7 3 St 28,6 l42t N. W. Exceeding strong wind, with rain. F- 8 37t 28,92 40 37* West. Ditto, and cloudy, with snow and fleet. Penguins. S - 9 35 29,32 36 32 West. Strong wind, and cloudy. At {- past 10 in he evening, some water which had 3een spilled on the deck was frozen, aad in the morning we passed the first island of ice. It was not very high, was smooth on the top and sides, and not rugged like those I have seen in the North seas. 4- 10 34 29,32 3 6 t Variable. Brisk wind, with snow and fleet. ?- ■ 11. 32I 29,2 7 34 N. W. Ditto. Passed another ice isle.
0-3*+° ^KX&*"0-T l +0^* c 25. 3*4 29,05 3*1 South. Moderate wind, and cloudy. Some ice. h - 26. 3o4 29,15 3 1 4 32 S. W. Brisk wind, and cloudy. Much ice. 0 - 27. 334 29,45 3 6 East. Little wind, and cloudy. Whales, peng. &ice. h - 28. 33 29,07 35 East. Brisk wind, and cloudy. No ice seen. $ - 29. 3 H 29,2 36 Variable. Mod. wind, with snow. Many peng. ; some ice. L 3°* 334 29,07 364 S. E. Little wind; snow and sleet. Seals and peng. rl -- 31. 3' 29,0 3*4 3* 3. E. Brisk wind, and cloudy. Pengu. seals, &c. 1 773* $ Jan. 1. 3 1 28,95 3*4 3* 8 . W. Brisk wind, with fleet. Some ice and peng. T? -- 2. 31 2 9>55 32 Variable. Brisk wind, and cloudy. Whales, peng. & ice. O- 3. 31 29,37 31 N. E. Brisk wind; snow and sleet. The rigging so cumbered with ice, that the ship was worked with the utmost difficulty, and many people were hurt by its falling. " 4 - 32 2 9,5 33 33 N. W. Brislc wind, with sleet. The rigging still loaded with ice. #- 5 - 334 29,4 34 N. W. Brisk wind, and cloudy. One ice island only. L-6. 33 i 29,17 344 N. W. Ditto. Few ice islands. Tt-7. 34 29,07 35 N. W. Brisk wind; snow and fleet. One ice island. r - 8. 33 * 29,12 341 N. W. Mod. wind, and cloudy. Several ice islands. h-9. 3 3 ^ 29,22 35 N. W. Light breezes, and cloudy, with snow at times. Took up a great quantity of ice to melt for water. That water melted from the ice usually found floating in the sea is fresh and good, is no new dis- covery. The Hudson's Bay ships have long made use of it; and I have mentioned it, from my o.wn experience, in the account of a Voyage to Hudson's Bay. See Phil. Trans. vol. lx. : "or the year 1770. O-10. 3*4 29,25 34 North. Mod. wind, and cloudy, with snow at times. 5- II. 34 29,27 354 East. Ditto, and cloudy. Several ice islands.
34 2 METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS 1 773* Morn. Noon. Even. Winds. Weather, &c. Therm. Barom. Therm. Therm. $ Jan. 12. 35 29,20 35 s. s. w. Moderate wind, and cloudy, with snow. Took up more ice for water. A thermometer which stood at 27 in the open air, stood at 3 3* in the water, ■at the surface, and at 32 when drawn up from too fa- thorns below it. Whilst we were waiting for the boats, many large pieces were broke off by the sea from a very large Ice Istand which was near us, so that it is plain those huee masses of Ice can exist but for a short time. S - 13. 34f 29'Z 38 8. E. Calm: Cloudy, with snow. Some Ice I st. % - 14. 29,17 35* S.E. Little wind, and cloudy. Some Ice Islands. r - 15- 35 29,07 42 34* S.E. Little wind, with snow at titpes. T ? - 16. 34 29,05 35 344- S.E. Brisk wind, and cloudy, with sleet. 0 - 17. 33 i 29, r 34 8. E. Brisk wind, and foggy. Tacked from a very large, and apparently firm field of ice, amidst an amazing number ot very large Ice Istands. 5 - - 18. 32 28,95 34* 33 S.E. Brisk wind, with sleet. Little ice. F - 19. 35 29,1 35 34* S.E. Brisk wind, and cloudy. Few Ice Islands. 5 - 20 33 i 28,67 33* 33* S.E. Ditto. Several Ice islands. Ts.- 2 1. 35 28,55 3 Si 35* S. w. Moderatewind, snow and sleet. Several Ice I. ?- 22. 35* 28,95 37* S. w. Moderate wind, with sleet. The two time- keepers bein -- 25. 28,85 36* 35 S. E. Brisk wind, and foggy. Little ice. $ - 26. 34 28,27 35 35* S. w. Little wind ; foggy, with rain. No ice. SF-27. 35* 28,9 a5 36 N. W. Little wind, and flying clouds. Some Ice I. 2;-28. 38 29,42 36? 36* N, W. Brisk wind, with sleet, snow and rain. Several Ice ]sl. ?-29. 37 29.65 38 37* North. Strong wind, with rain, and very thick fog. * - 30. 38s 29'57 39* 40 N. W. Strong wind, with thick fog, and rain. O - Zl- 38 29,55 38* 39 N. W. Strong wind, and cloudy. ^ Some ice. D Feb. 1. 40 * 29,95 41* 40 N. W. Brilk wind, and cloudy. Penguins and divers. $ -2. 43 29,92 45 * 46* North. Brisk wind, and foggy, with rhin at times. L- 3 43 f 29,8 46 46 N. W. Moderatewind, and hazy. Sea-weed & div. V. - 4 42s 29,65 45 43* N. W. Moderate wind, and cloudy. ? - 5- 40 29,6 4 1 41 N. W. Ditto. si-6. 43 29,47 43* 44* N. W. Brisk wind, and drizzling rain. O-7- 44 29,7 44 45 N. E. Brisk wind, and cloudy. S - 8. 40 29,25 43* N.E. Briik wind, and thick fog: Rain at times. Penguins. $ -- 9. 43* 28,85 45 N. W. Strong wind, and foggy, with rain. Feng. L-10. 40 29,45 4it 4i N. W. Strong wind, and cloudy. V-11. 40 29,17 4° N. W. Brilk wind, with rain. Many penguins. 5-12. 29,55 38 38 S.W. Brisk wind, and clear weather. Manypeng. h - 13 35 29,6 Z6 38* West. Ditto. Many penguins. ©-14 35* 29,37 35* 36 S. W. Moderate wind, snow and sleet. Saw a seal. D-15 35 29,4 36* z6* S. W. Brilk wind, and cloudy. Several seals. F --16 35 29,5 34 East. Little wind, with snow. Mr. Pickcrsgill saw south, lights.
ON BOARD THE RESOLUTION. 343 1 773 - L Feb. i /• it ¥ 18. 19- h - 20 . Mor- . Iherm. Moon. Even. B-vom. I'henn. Therm, Winds. Weather, &c. zztz 29,02 35 | |S. S. W. Moderate wind, and cloudy, with snow. About one o'clock in the morning Mr. Cierke, who had the watch, told me that the lame appearance which Mr. Pickersgill had seen the night before was very bright. I got up, and found it to be the very same phenomenon which we calf the Northern Lights in England. The natural state of the heavens, except in the S. E. quarter, and for about 10° of altitude all round the horizon, was a whitish haze, through which stars of the third magnitude were just discernable. All round, the hoijzon was covered with thick clouds, out of which arose many streams of a pale reddish light, that ascended towards the zenith. These streams had not that motion which they are sometimes seen to have in England; but were perfectly steady, except a small tremulous motion which some of them had near their edges. Took up ice for water. Z2 33 Many 29,12 29,2 large 0 -- 21. 34i 29,42 36L N. E, D - 22. 45 f 28,82 34 S. E. F -23. 34 28,72 35 331 S. E. 33 33 S.W. Moderate wind, and cloudy. Several Ice Ist. 35 33 k S. W. 'Brisk wind, and squally, with snow at times. Ice Islands. In the night the southern lights were very bright at times, and the colours much more various and vivid than they were on Wednesday night, their motion also was greater, so that on the whole they were extremely beautiful. 32s | 29,3 | 35 | |W. S. W. |Moderate wind, and hazy. Many large Ice Islands, and a strong appearance of land to the westward, which proved only a fog-bank. At nine o'clock in the evening the southern lights sprung up very bright about the east point of the horizon, in a single steady pillar, of a pale reddish light. Its direction was not directly towards the zenith, but gradually deflected towards the south, and grew fainter as it ascended, so as to vanish about S. E. and at 45 0 of altitude. Little wind, with snow. Many Ice Islands. Ditto. Strong wind, with snow, and so thick a fog, at times, that we could scarcely see a ship's length, and at the same time were surrounded with a prodigious number of very large islands of ice. In the morning I saw one burst, in an instant, into three large, and a great many small pieces. It made no report, or at least so small a one that we could not hear it for the noise of the sea, and the whistling of the wind in the rigging. Strong wind, with sleet. Many large Ice I st. Little wind, and cloudy, withsnow. Several Ice Islands. Little wind, andcloudy. Sawthe South.lights Strong wind, with sleet. Whales and ice. Strong wind, and foggy. Porpoises and ice. Brisk wind, with snow. Several Ice Islands. Little wind, thick fog, and rain. Little wind, and foggy. Several penguins. Brisk wind, with snow and rain. Moderate wind, and foggy, with rain. Many islands of ice. One in particular, which we pasted in the afternoon, was near a mile and half long, and very high : It was calm most part of the night, so that we found ourselves very near it in the morning, but observed that several very large pieces had broke off from it. Many great reports, like thunder, were heard in the night, which I conceive were occasioned by these pieces breaking oft'. L -- 24. 34 28,55 35 35 Variable. -ft 25- 35 29,0 3 6 k 3 6 i N. E. ¥ -26. 35 29,1 3 6 s 33 South. h -27. 34 28,42 34! S. W. O -28 O r* L 3 d + 29,0 36I Variable. D March 1. 35 28,35 35 k 36s N.E. <f -2. 37 28,55 38 S. W. s --3. 3 6 29,05 38 Variable. n - 4. 35i 28,82 36 N. W. ? 5- 36 28,87 37s S. E. 4 T
34 + meteorological OBSERVATIONS 1773- Morn, Noon. Even. Winds. Weather, &c. Therm. Barom. 1 'Therm. Therm. ? March 5. An almost universal dissolution began, about this time, to take place among theie vast and, to us, tremendous bodies of frigid matter. One large Ice lsiand. h -6. 3 6 i 28,95 37 37 Variable, Moderate wind, and cloudy. Saw the southern lights. O-7. 35? 28,57 34T South. Little wind, with sleet. Saw the South, lights. 5 - 8. 35 t 28,92 40 S. E. Little wind, and cloudy. $ - - 9. 3 6 t 28,62 37 35 S. W. Strong wind, and squally, with rain and sleet. 8-lo. 33 29,0 35 Variable. Brisk wind, and cloudy. Saw sea-weed. ■4 -j 1, 35 29,15 37 East. Moderate wind, with snow and sleet. 2 -I 2. 37* 28,97 39* 37 S. E. Moderate wind, with drizzling rain. h -13- 35 28,7 36^ 35 Variable. Moderate wind. Snow and rain. 0-14. 3IT 28,87 33 S. W. Brisk wind. Snow and rain. v-15. 314 28,85 34 Westerly. Moderate wind, and cloudy. The southern lights very bright at times , and exceec ing beautiful: Their colours being vivid, and their motion quick and curious. F -.- 16. 33? 29,12 35i 36 s. s. w. iBrisk wind, and squally, with snow. 8 - 17. 34 29'45 35 i N. W. [Brisk wind, and cloudy. % - 18. 39 20,82 4i4 West. [Brisk wind, with rain at times. A little after nine o'clock in the evening it was very clear, and the southern lights were exceeding bright and beautiful, and appeared of a femi-circular, or rainbow- like form, whose two extremities were nearly in the east and west points of the horizon. This bow, when it first made its appearance, passed a considerable way to the north of the zenith; but rose by degrees, turning, as it were, on its dia- meter, and passing through the zenith, fettled at length, towards the southern hori- zon. These lights were at one time so bright, that we could discern our Ihadows on the deck. ?-19. 4ii 29,82 43 N. W. Brisk wind, and cloudy Sea-weed, perg. and porpoises. h -20. 45* 29,75 45 West. Strong wind, and hazy. © - 21. 45* 29,95 46 N. W. Brisk wind, and cloudy; saw seals & sea-weed. 3)-22. 45f 29,85 47 S. E. Brisk wind, with showers. $ - 23. 47 30,17 49 49 Ditto. Brisk, and cloudy. S-24. 5° 29,95 524 54* Ditto. Mod.wind,&foggy, with rain. Passed sea-weed, sticks,&c. % --- 25. 5 2 29,85 54 52 i Variable. Brisk wind, and squally, with rain. ? -- 26. 52 30,15 534 S. W. Moderate wind, and sine weather. \ -27. 50 30,28 55 Westerly. Ditto, with showers. O-28. 55 30,38 5 6 t N. W. Ditto, and much rain. 1)-29. 30,41 60 N. W. Ditto, with frequent showers. F-20. 30,36 61 North. Strong wind, and heavy rain. 8-3 l. 30,14 62s North. Moderate wind, with heavy showers. if April 1. 30,03 61 N. W. Ditto, and fine weather. ?-2. 29,75 56? N. W. Ditto, and showers. h-3. 29,71 58 N. N. W. Brisk wind, with drizzling rain. O - 4- 29,65 58 N. N. W. Moderate wind, with some heavy showers. 5 - 5. a8 29,98 54 Variable. Brisk wind, with heavy showers. F - 6. 46s 30,24 6 of 587 Ditto. Moderate wind, with much rain. 8-7- 49 3o,39 52 Ditto. Ditto, with constant heavy rain. if-8. 48 30,22 5 of Ditto. Ditto, and rain without intermission. ? 9- 5 1 30,04 52 Westerly. Ditto. 1?-10. 52 29,92 5*t N. W. Ditto.
ON BOARO THE RESOLUTION. 343 1 773 ■ Morn. Noon. •Even. Winds. Weather, &c. Therm. Barom. 1 herm. Therm. O April ii. 48 30A3 54 53 V ariable. Little wind, with frequent showers. 5 - 12. 47-r 30,20 50 Westerly. - i -1 3. 5°4 30,18 58 Ditto. L-14. 5 2 l 29,82 :53 Ditto. Little wind, and almost continued heavy rain. V -15. soz 29,99 53 Ditto. ¥ -16. 5 1 30,04 58 544 Ditto. T?-17. 55 29,90 56 56 Ditto. 0 -18. 534 29.95 584 57 4 Easterly. Little wind, and fine weather. D-19. 5°4 29,85 57 4 Ditto. Ditto. F-20. 5° 29,77 574 56 Ditto. Ditto. s-21. 464 29,68 55 56 Ditto. Ditto. -4 -- 22. 29,67 53 45 Ditto. Moderate wind, and heavy showers. $ 2 3 . h -24. 29,76 29,82 524 534 Westerly. Ditto. [ Gentle breezes, with some showers. O-25. 29,95 33? Ditto. Little wind, and fine clear weather. 5 -- 26. 29,88 5i4 N. E. Moderate wind, with much rain. " $ -- 27. 3.0,02 5° N, W. Ditto, with heavy showers. 8 - 28. 30,25 47 Westerly. Light breezes, and cloudy, with showers. it-29. 30,24 484 Ditto. Ditto. % - 3 o, 3 0 ,38 N. E. Ditto. I? May 1. 30,39 504 Variable. Ditto, with drizzling rain. O-2. 30,42 5i Calm, with showers. "-3' 30,23 48 Calm, with continued heavy rain. F-- 4- 29,98 5*4 Variable. Gentle breezes, with frequent showers. 8-5. 29,96 46 S. W. Ditto, with smart showers of rain. n -6. 30,42 51 N. W. Moderate wind, with showers. ¥-7. 30,23 5o4 N. W. Strong wind, thunder, lightning, hail & rain. h -8. 30,02 494 V ariable. Brisk wind, and flying clouds, with showers. I had frequently to-day, an opportunity of viewing a very curious phaenomenon ; namely, the deicent of the snow on the tops of the prodigiously high, and almost perpendicular hills which every where surrounded us. The atmosphere, in ge- neral, was pretty clear, except some very thick whitish clouds, which were conti- nually flying over us. When these came near any hill, they began to extend themselves towards it, and were drawn out into a fort of conical form, the vertex of which was towards the hill. By degrees, the cloud gathered round the top of the hill, and entirely covered it; from which time the cloud grew visibly less dense, and in a little time was totally dispersed ; when it appeared that all the part os the hill which had been immersed in the cloud was covered with snow. O-9. 30,35 49 N. E. Brisk wind, and flying clouds. 5-IO, 30,01 53 N. E. Ditto, with showers of hail and rain. <?-11. 30,27 444 S. W. Moderate wind, and flying clouds. 8-- 12. 46 30,32 49 N. V/. Ditto, with showers. 4-iz. 53 30,3 55 s. w.. Brisk wind, and cloudy. ¥-14 56 30,47 .58 8. E. Little wind, and hazy weather. h 15 53 30,3 56 N. E. Ditto. O-ib. 56 29,75 59 Westerly. Brisk wind, in squalls, with rain. --- L
3+ 6 METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS 1773* Morn. I herm. Noon. Even. Wind?. Weather, &c. Bar.im. Therm. had ai of the Therm D May 17. 5 1 ? afte wifl 29,65 moon we led, one \ oppo most Southerly, -tunity of ob turious, and Moderate wind, and flying clouds. This erving, in as complete a manner as could be perhaps the most extraordinary and power- ful, of Nature's productions. The forenoon had been in general pretty clear, but subject to heavy squalls of wind, and some flying clouds, which were very black and heavy, and moved with great velocity from the S. W. towards the N. E. (the direction of the wind). About four o'clock in the afternoon it became calm, and the heavens were almost covered with very black clouds, particularly towards the W. and N. W. ; and presently after we saw several tail-like appearances, depending from the clouds in that quarter: These appearances were whiter than the clouds they hung from, which made them very conspicuous, and they increased gradually, in length, until they extended, as near as 1 could judge, about one-flxth part of the distance between the cloud and the surface of the sea. About this time, the water under them began to be violently agitated, and lifted up with a whirling motion towards the impending part of the cloud, which, on account of a motion they all had the contrary way to that the wind had blown, was not directly over it, but a little towards the S. W. As the water rose, the end of the cloud descended, and in a little time they joined ; after which the water appeared to me to ascend out of the sea, into the cloud, with great velocity. I think that none of these spouts, as they are usually called, continued entire more than ten minutes: perhaps not quite so long. I saw four complete at one time; but there were great numbers which began to form, and were dispersed, by what cause I know not, before the cloud and water joined. One of them came, I was told, within 30 or 40 yards of the ship, which lay becalmed; but I was then below looking at the Barometer: when I got upon deck, it was about 100 fathoms from her. It is impossible to fay what would have been the consequences if it had gone over her ; but I believe they would have been very dreadful. At the time when this happened, the Barometer stood at 29,75 inches, and the Thermometer at 56°. The whole of this passed within the space of an hour, or thereabouts ; for at five o'clock a small breeze of wind sprung up in the S. E. quarter, and dispersed every appearance of this kind, although the black clouds remained until about ten, when the wind veered round to the W. S. W. and settled there in a moderate, steady gale, and the weather cleared up. The annexed plate, N°. 4, was engraved from a drawing of Mr. Hodges, taken at the time-, in which he has exhibited the appearance of one of them in three several states, and also the appearance of that which approached so near to the ship. Little wind, and fine weather. Ditto. Moderate wind, and cloudy. Ditto, and mostly cloudy. Ditto, and cloudy. Little wind, and fine weather. Brisk wind, and fine weather. Ditto, and cloudy weather. Ditto. Ditto. Ditto. <? - - 18. 29,57 49 S. W. " - - 19. 29,69 55 Ditto. n - - 20. 29,98 Northerly. ? - 21. ZO,i 1 57 Variable. h - -- 22. ' 30,11 56? Northerly. O - - LZ. 55 30,16 55r S. W. D - - 24. 50 3°,35 53 56 Westerly. $ - 25. 30,15 56 S W. " - - 26. 29,69 57! Ditto. T - 27. 29,68 53 Ditto. ¥ - 28. 29,66 53 Ditto.
U--,, MM
MM 10 SM' §Bi||gJ|s IS§ W?W^ WrM i®gp ABZ MM Wd§ f'u 1 WSSJ^S^S sMU^W MWM 8-WS ? 0 mglg. mi gsass &$£&%£ Wm WM mm- ~E"/;vaA' :L by D -L erpiniar 4y \{7" jir),j/j ej i'vtfi 'dM p M-MD MM MM WAW kEW W "~ r -'SS5' -jiS" UM" 8sK W^MW MMZ ®Bg"B MM DWZW mi'i: WE 'P^^tt?£ 053 , mm wmm LWW-M MM mm& M MAW ''Z&^3§rt£S~&& 'tzss&ssSsS£ fiSfiaisl IStlISfi MM amE WWN> WW MM MM """" ?MM fmmm NUM MM '//''b 0 /M sœam mum iMm$k. WW MMG Hii^tii wmmmk mm Wm M;K/ MWi HAM wfem. mm MM WLM Z'S-r'?-'-' "<>. KLZ MM

Ovr'+o-ii^oc'^wO-vr' ON BOARD THE RESOLUTION 347 Morn. I 773 - Therm h May 29. O -30. 54 v -zr- F June 1. L -- 2. n - 3. 48 s - 4. h - 5. O - 6. D - 7 - F-8. 5 1 ! S - 9 - r-)I if - 10. 5 2 i ?-11. 5 1 ? h -- 12. 49 ? G 13. 5° D - 14. 49? $ - 15. 46 8 - 16. 48 z V-17. 49 ? ? -- 18. 49? h - 19. 47 O-20. 48 D - 21. 48 J - 22. 5°? 8 - 23. 49? st-24. 5 1 ? ? -- 25. 54 h - 26. 54 O-27. 5 2 f r -28. 5 2 F - 29. 5 1 L - 3°- 49? st July 1. 48 ? - 2. 45 b - 3 - 48 O -• 4. 4 Qi D.- 5. 48 F - 6. 5°f 8 - 7 - 5 1 if - 8. 5-i ? - 9 49 h --10. 5 2 f O-11. 45 v - 12. 47 $ - 13 47t 8-14. 48 if- 15. 49? Noon. Even. Winds. Weather, &c. •Barom. Therm. I'herm. 2 9>77 56| s. w. Brisk wind, and cloudy weather. 29,8 I 57? 57! Westerly. Moderate wind, and fine weather. 30,02 51s S.W. 30,28 30,20 50s 49 W. S. w. S. W. ►Ditto, and mostly cloudy, with showers. 30,20 5 1 ? 54! Ditto. Ditto, and fine weather. 3°>4 5 1 ! Southerly. Ditto, and cloudy. 30,41 491 S. 8. E. Strong wind, with rain. 30,3 5if Ditto. Ditto. 30,15 55 North. Moderate wind, and fine weathers 29,90 5 2 5 Z Ditto. Ditto. 29,82 55 Ditto. Ditto. 2 9'7 54 Ditto. Ditto. 2 9'77 5 1 ? Ditto. Moderate wind, and cloudy, with rain." Moderate wind, with rain. 29,67 5>z Variable. 30-0 5if S. E. Moderate wind, and cloudy; rain at times. 29,65 49 S. W. Moderate wind, with drizzling rain. 2 9"7 4 8| 48 East. Ditto. 29,75 49 S. E. Brisk wind, with rain. 29'75 49? Ditto. Brisk wind, and cloudy ; rain at timesh 29,8 48 47 f Ditto. Brisk wind, and cloudy weather. 30,12 48 South. Vloderate wind, and cloudy. 30,15 48 t S. W. Ditto. 30,27 50 i Ditto. Ditto. 30,35 5 2 ? N. W. Ditto. 30,27 5°i East. Ditto. 29,47 29,22 5if Ditto. N. E. . Strong wind, with rain. Brisk wind, with rain. 29,27 55i last. Ditto, and cloudy. 29,12 53? S. W. Little wind, and foggy. 29,4 5 2 l 50? Variable. Ditto. 29,4 5 2 ! 5 1 ? Ditto. Moderate wind, and cloudy. 29,65 5U South. Ditto. 29,75 49 49! Ditto. Moderate wind, and flying cloudsi 29,8 47 N. W. Ditto, and fine weather. 29,62 49! 49 N. E. Ditto, with showers. 2 9'75 4"! 49 S. E. Ditto, and fine weather. 29,85 48 49? Ditto. Brisk wind, with rain. 29,67 51 Ditto. Ditto, and cloudy. 2 9,47 5 2 ? West. Moderate wind, and fine weather. 2 9,45 §iz 5 l i S.W. Ditto, with showers. 29,85. 50! 5i N. W. Dirto, and cloudy. 29,82 5 1 South. Brisk wind, and cloudy : rain at times. .30,3 47 47? S. W. Moderate wind, and fine weather. 30,27 49 49 West. Ditto. 30,27 49? 49 V amble. Little wind, and fine weather. 3o,r 5° N. E. Moderate wind, and cloudy. 29,65 52 South. Moderate wind, rain, and thick fog. -? -S- ■ -JL- - r ..>_____._
348 METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS VI irn. Noon. Even. Winds. Weather, &c. * 773 - herm. Hart in. 'he. in. ''herin. ? July 16. 46 29'5 46 464 south. L Irisk wind, and cloudy, with rain at times. h -17 44 29,8 44 ? 45 Ditto. Ditto, with showers of hail and rain. O -- 18. 474 3°,2 49? 49 ' W. VIoderate wind, and fine weather. v-19- 51? 30,32 54 534 south. Ditto. $ - 20. 52-J ZO.IZ 58; iast. VIoderate wind, and cloudy. 2-21. 5 6 i 29,62 594 61 Ditto. Brisk wind, and foggy. U-22. 61 29,62 63 624 West. VIoderate wind, and fine weather: rain at times. ? - 23. 614 29,85 634 M. W. Ditto, and cloudy, with rain. h- 24 - 65 29,85 644 Ditto. Strong wind in squalls, with rain. 0-25. 66 29,82 654 62 Ditto. Strong wind, and heavy rain. r-26. 66 29,90 664 67 Ditto. VIoderate wind, and fine weather. - 2. 68 29,87 69? 7 °? West. Gentle breezes, and fine weather. $ - 3 69; 30,05 7 1 ? 724 N. W. Ditto. 2 - 4- 72 30,05 74 Ditto. Moderate wind, and fine weather. is - 5 - 764 30,02 764 774 Ditto. Bride wind, and fine weather. ? - 6. 77 20,1 78 Variable. Little wind, and cloudy, with rain at times. After many wishes, and long expectation, we this day got the S. E. Trade wind. Its manner of coming on was rather remarkable. About 10 o'clock in the morning, a thick haze began to rile in the Eastern quarter, which by noon was become so thick, and had Ipread so far, that it was with difficulty we got the fun's meridian altitude ; but the N. W. wind, which we had had for about a fortnight, during which time the weather was generally very fine and pleasant, still eontinued to blow. In the afternoon we had some pretty brisk showers, with which the N. W. wind died away, and it was calm till eight o'clock in the evening, when a brisk, steady gale s tsrung up at S. E., and proved permanent. k - 7- 73 30,12 75 S. E. Brisk wind, and cloudy. ©- 8. 72; 30,2 75 Ditto. Ditto, and fine weather. D - 9. 73 20,22 764 Ditto. Ditto, with rain at times. $ - - IO. 74f 30,2 784 v- 1 7 /? East. Ditto, and cloudy. 2 - n. 75 30,07 784 Ditto. Moderate wind, and fine weather. TJ. - 12. 76; 30,07 784 79 Ditto. Ditto. ?-lz. 76s 30,1 794 79 Ditto. Ditto. h -H 78 30,12 79 79 Ditto. Ditto. O-lZ 77 30, t . 80 80 Ditto. Ditto. 5 --- ib 79 30,07 80; Ditto. Light winds, and mostly fine weather. $ -17 75 30,02 8i4 S. E. Ditto, very hot. 2-18 734 30,03 81 80 Variable, Ditto. st - ! 9 734 30,12 80 80 Ditto. Ditto. $-20 774 3 °, 1 794 794 S. E. Ditto. fj-21 H 4 3 0 "°5 82 Ditto. Ditto. Q-22 30,02 81 8o| N. W. Strong wind, and cloudy weather. r-23 • 76I- 30,05 78 Calm. Very clear, and extremely hot.
ON BOARD THE RESOLUTION, 349 1773- Morn. Noon. Even. Winds, Weather, &c. Therm. Barom. Therm. Therm. °5 78 Ditto. Ditto, and flying clouds. il -26. 691 3°'-3 Variable. Fine weather, and very hot. ¥ -- 27. OO Easterly. Ditto. h - 28.. 3°>2I 82 78 Ditto. Ditto. O- 29. 75 Z 0,2 90 Ditto. Ditto. v -- 3°. 77k 30,2 9 1 831 Ditto. Ditto. *- 31- 79 30 ,l 6 93 89 Ditto. Ditto. L Sept. 1. 76 30,0 V ariable. Brilk wind, with flying clouds. N- 2. 29'9S 77 Easterly. Ditto. * - 3' 75 30,1 76| 774 Ditto. Moderate wind, and flying clouds. h - 4 . 30,08 77 7 8 7^t Ditto. Ditto, and pleasant weather. O- 5. 30,08 77k Ditto. Ditto. B - 6. 30,09 79 Ditto. Ditto. $ -7. 77k 30,12 79 t Ditto. Ditto. S 8. 79 30,7 85 S. E. Brisk wind, and very hot. 6 \ 6 1 I I 1 ps 0+ 77k 30,06 30,05 81 804- Hl* CO Ditto. Ditto. | Moderate wind, with showers. h - 11. 75 30,06 791 Ditto. Ditto, and fine weather. O - 12 . 744 30,13 77 774 Ditto. Little wind, and hot sultry weather. r -13- 74f 30,12 77 76 Ditto. Brisk wind, and fine pleasant weather. $ - 14. 74 30,13 761 Ditto. Strong wind, with showers. S i5- 30,07 77 754 Ditto. Ditto, -4 _- 16. 771 30,04 771 Ditto. Ditto. S - 17, 72| 29,95 7H 774 East. Brisk wind, and pleasant weather. h - 18. 77 30,07 79 794 Ditto. Moderate wind, and flying clouds. O - 19. 77 30,02 79k 794 Ditto. Ditto. D - 20. 78s 29,97 8 ii Ditto. Mod.wind & cloudy;. rain, thunder, &lightn. $ - 2 1. 30,0 81 804 Variable. Ditto, thunder, &c. S - 22. 74 i 29,97 771 764 S. E. Brisk wind, and cloudy, with rain. * - 23- 6 9 | 30,05 73 Ditto. Moderate wind, and cloudy. ¥- 24 . 72 s 30,05 74 744 Ditto. Brisk wind, and squally, with rain.. h- 25 . 72I 30,02 731 734 Ditto. Ditto, and squally. Q- 26. 7"4 30,05 73 7 1 Ditto. Ditto, and drizzling rain. 3) - 27. 7'i 30,07 7i 70 Ditto. Ditto, and cloudy. 4 69 Ditto. Ditto. 3) - 4. 69 30,12 7"t 72 Ditto. Ditto. >5 5. 68 30,12 744 Ditto. Ditto. A - 6. ?H 30,05 754 734 Ditto. Ditto. *-7- 7 2 4 30,05 73 7 2 4 Ditto. Moderate wind, and flying clouds. ¥-8. 73k 29,95 764 75 S.W. Ditto. h-9- 681 30,30 734 S. E. Moderate wind, and cloudy. O-10. 70 30,07 694 70 Ditto. Brisk wind, and ditto.
METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS 35 ° 1773 - Morn. N001 1, Even. Winds. Weather, &c. Therm. Barom. Therm. Therm. D Oct. II. 69 30,2Z 694 69$ 8. E. Brisk wind, and cloudy. F- 12. 69s 30,2 70 ! 7°4 Ditto. Ditto. 8 - rz. 66$ Z0,2 70 Ditto. Ditto. % - 14. 66; Z0,2Z 66$ East. Moderate wind, and cloudy. z , * 5 - 65 30,32 68$ 70 Ditto. Brisk wind, and cloudy at times. 16. 65 30,27 68 67 N. E. Moderate wind, and clear weather. Q - * 7 - 634 30,26 69 66 Ditto. Little wind, and fine weather. } - 18. 64 30,2 66 Ditto. Brisk wind, and ditto. F i. 1 .1 M 19. 644 30,02 66$ Variable. Ditto, and mostly cloudy : showers. s - 20. 6 i 4 29,72 604 6*4 West. Ditto, and flying clouds. % - 21. 594 29-7 62 634 N. W. Ditto. d - - 22. §8 29,17 594 60$ S.W. Brisk wind, and cloudy. h - 2Z- 5*4 29,6 534 58 West. Strong wind, and cloudy, with rain. Q - - - 24. 574 29,37 60$ 62 N. W. Strong wind, and cloudy. The water in Dr. Lind's Wind-gage was depressed 8-xoths of an inch at times : We were^now ; under bare poles. ]) 25. 58 29,15 694 s . w . Strong wind, and cloudy weather. ^ . . 2 6. 544 2 Q* 2 54 53 Variable. Brisk wind, and cloudy. 8 - 27- 524 29,57 58 56 N. W. Very strong wind, and cloudy. 28. 56 29,12 58 564 Westerly. Ditto, lightning. ? - 29- 5i4 29,62 524 53 N. W. Ditto. h - ZO- 54 29,4 584 Ditto. Ditto. O - 3 '- 55t 29.22 57 Variable. Ditto. r Nov. 1. 544 29,22 50$ Ditto. Brisk wind, with rain and thick fog. $ - 2. 52 29,45 5*4 S. E. Strong wind, and cloudy, with showers. g > z . 51 4 29,85 584 584 Variable. Little wind, and fine weather. V - 4 - 54 29,82 624 Ditto. Moderate wind, with showers. 5 - 29,67 Ditto. Brisk wind, with rain, and very cold. h - 6. 52 30,06 61 55 ^ Ditto. Moderate wind, and cloudy weather. 7 - 30,2 67 Northerly. Brisk wind, and fine weather, mostly. D --- 8 . 52 29,98 56 Southerly. Cloudy, with rain, and cold raw weather. $ - 9 - 50 30,2 59 564 Ditto. Wind moderate, and weather warmer. 8 - 10. 60 29,8 524 61 Variable. Mostly cloudy, with showers. ■u - 11. 30,08 5*4 Ditto. Much rain, and cold disagreeable weather. S- 12. 61 30,31 67$ 61 Ditto. Moderate wind, and cloudy. Tj - i 3 - 564 30,40 69$ 64 Southerly. 1 O - 14. 564 30,33 70 654 Ditto. • Ditto, and fine weather. 3 ) - J 5 ' 61 30,17 67 61-4 Ditto. $ - 16. 61 30,09 69$ 70$ Ditto. 1 8 - * 7 - 29,99 76 Northerly. Brisk winds, with rain. n - 18. 7 o 4 29,7 734 7*4 N. W. Strong wind, with ditto. $ - 19. 65 64 Ditto. Brisk wind,, with ditto. h - 20. 5*4 29,7 62 474 S. W. Moderate wind, and mostly cloudy : showers. ©- 21. 29,95 60 N. W. Ditro, with heavy rain at times. r - 22. 30,2 61 Ditto. Wind moderate, and fine pleasant weather. $ - - 23 .0,29 61 Ditto. Moderate wind, and ditto. 8 - 24. 30,29 66 Variable. Ditto, and fiving clouds : showers. u - - 25. 3 °, 3 > 614 N. W. Brisk wind, and fine weather. ?- - 2 % 61 3°"'7 6zi North. Moderate wind, and cloudy.
ON BOARD THE RESOLUTION. 3S l 1 773* Morn. Noon. Even. Winds. Weather, &c. Therm. Baiom. Therm. Therm. H Nov. 27. 632 29'97 62 6l Variable. Brisk wind, and flying clouds. 0 - 28. 54 30,2 56 North. Little wind, and hazy. Rain at times. j - 29. 30,1 55 54t 8. W. Mod. wind, and cloudy. Sticks & sea-weed. F-ZO. 48 29,97 49 49 Ditto. Brisk wind, and cloudy. x Dec. 1. 48 30,0 49^ Ditto. Ditto, with fog. if-2. ? - 3. 44 29,92 29,6 464 47 Ditto. N. W. Mod. wind, and foggy. Peng. and sea-weed. Ditto, Penguins and seals. h - 4- 46 s 29,8 474 S. E. Little wind, with fog and rain. Penguins, O - 5. 45 29,75 464 464 Easterly. Little wind, and fine weather. Seals. 5 - 6. 4 7i 29,55 49 North. Mod. wind, and foggy. Seals and sea-weed. & - 7. 48 28,95 49 48s N. W. Brisk wind and foggy, with rain. Drift-wood. S - 8. 50 29,45 434 43 N. W. Strong wind, and foggy. % - 9. 44f 29,72 444 434 s. w. . Ditto, with rain. S-10. 3 6 i 29,45 364 354 Westerly. Ditto, with fleet. T?-II. 38I 29,07 39 i 394 8. W. Brisk wind, with rain and snow. Saw an ice ist. O - 12. 31s 29,07 3 2 ? 35 Ditto. Brisk wind, and squally. Snow and hail. v - 13. 3 ° 28,92 32 West. Brisk wind, and foggy. Much snow and ice. $ - 14- 31s 29,07 34s 35 Ditto. Ditto. Much ice. L - 15. 43 28,87 31 Ditto. Brisk wind, with snow. Many ice isles. n - 16. 29f 29,42 33 N. E. Mod. wind, and cloudy: snow. Took up ice for water. ? - 17. 3H 29,07 33s 33 North. Mod. wind, and foggy: snow at times. Ice. h -- 18. 33 29,0 33 Ditto. Ditto, and thick fog. Several ice islands. O - 19. 33 28,8 34 Ditto. Ditto, and foggy. Much ice. D -- 20. 33 29,2 33 N. E. Ditto, and cloudy. Much loose ice. F -. - 21. 33 28,7 34 Ditto. Brisk wind, thick fog, and fleet. Many ice ill. L - 22. '3*1 28,95 33 North. Ditto, and foggy. Many ice islands. If - 23. 3H 29,22 35 294 Ditto. Mod. wind, and foggy. Abundance of ice. ?-24. 3*4 28,62 32 33 N. W. Ditto. Many islands of ice. h - 25. 33 29,2 34 Ditto. Little wind, and cloudy. 96 ice isles seen at one time. O - 26. 35 29,17 37 35 Ditto. Ditto. 200 ice isles seen at one time. v - 27. 36 29,0 35 34 N. E. Ditto. Much ice: Took some up for water. S -28. Z2 28,65 33? 8. E. Brisk wind, with snow. Some ice islands. 8 - 29. 33 r 28,62 33 344 Southerly. Mod. wind, much snow, and many ice isl. if - 30. 32 28,77 34s 354 37 8. W. Little wind, and cloudy. Few ice islands. ? - 31. 33 29,05 35 Variable. Little wind, and cloudy, with fleet at times. %* To day, while we were observing the meridian altitude of the sun, a shower of snow came from the well, and passed a-head of the ship; during which, a large island of ice, considerably within the visible horizon, and directly under the sun, was entirely hid by it; yet the horizon appeared as distinct, and much the same as it usually does in dark hazy weather. When the shower was over, I found that it required the fun to be dipped something more than his whole diameter to bring his lower limb to the nearest edge of the ice island, which must have been-farther off than the visible horizon, during the shower; and yet this would have been taken as the real horizon, without any suspicion, if it had been every where equally obscured. Hence may be inferred the uncertainty of altitudes taken in foggy, or what seamen, in general, call hazy weather. i 4 X
(£■ o " "o xx Zzs METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS n s h © 2 ) F S If ¥ b G D S V ? b O 1774. Morn. Noon. Even. Winds Therm. Barom. Therm Therm. Jan. 1. 34 28,87 3 6 i 371 s . w . -2. 34? 2 9,05 M S. E. - 3- 36s 29,12 36 39 N. W. -4. 44! 29,27 46 i Ditto. -5. 47 29,22 46I Ditto. - 6. 46 29,22 47 5° Ditto. 7- 47? 29,25 50 5°l Ditto. -8. 47? 29-47 49l 5° West. -9. 49 29.7 5 l T Ditto. -- 10. 49r 29'52 52t Ditto. - - 11. 48} 29,47 5o 50 N. W. *- 12. 53 29,71 5 6 55 Ditto. - 13. 52 29,45 534 Ditto. 14. Si 29,41 5 l i 544 Ditto. -15- 4 8} 29,27 5 * Ditto. -1 6. 48 29,77 4 n 49 West. *7- 4 34 29,67 414 4i Ditto. - - .- 18. 40 i 28,9 40 4 i 4 V actable. 19 . 39 28,62 394 Ditto. - 1 - 20. 474 28,52 40 38 S. E. -21. 36 28,57 37 38 Ditto. - 22. 36 28,7 37i S. W. 2Z- 37 28,57 384 S. W. - 24. 401 28,57 39 N. W. -25. 39 28,82 42? 391 Ditto. - 26. 29,05 40 36 N.E. -. 27 . 374 28,72 374 Ditto. -- 28. 354 28,85 36 3'3'T North. -29. 344 28,7 364 33 4 Easterly. - 30 . 3 i 4 28,8 3 2 3- 2 1 E. N. E. Weather, Le. Moderate wind, and cloudy, with snow. Ditto. Brisk wind, with snow and sleet. Ditto, and foggy, with rain. Strong wind, and cloudy. Rain at times. Brisk wind, and cloudy. Sea-weed. Brisk wind, and flying clouds. Ditto. Ditto. Many birds. Mod. wind, and flying clouds. Many birds. Brisk wind, and squally, with showers. Ditto, and flying clouds. Ditto, and foggy. Sea-weed. - Ditto, and foggy. Strong wind, and foggy, with rain. _ Brisk wind, and hazy. Ditto, with rain and fleet. Ditto, and foggy, with rain at times. - Ditto, with rain. Sea-weed. Ditto, and cloudy. Saw two ice islands. Ditto, and cloudy, with fleet at times. Mod. wind: snow and.rain. Several ice ill. Ditto, and cloudy. Sleet, and some ice isles. Brisk wind, and cloudy. One ice island. Moderate wind, and foggy : fleet. Little wind, and cloudy. Several ice islands. Mod. wind, and thick fog. Some ice ifl. Ditto. Much loose ice. Mod. wind, & cloudy, with snow sometimes. Ditto, and foggy, with snow. *** This morning we discovered a prodigious large field of ice right a-head, extending east and west farther than could be seen from off the main-top-gallant yard. At a distance, the whole appeared very high, and like one solid fixed mass, with many exceeding high, mountainous parts in it but when we came nearer, we found its edge, which before appeared upright, and of one solid piece, scarce higher than the water, and composed of many small pieces, close joined together, with some pretty large ice islands amongst. Farther in, it yet appeared high and mountainous; but probably this also was a deception, caused by the very great refractive power of the atmosphere, near the horizon, in those frigid regions: many instances of which I had occasion to mention in the account of my Voyage to, and residence in, Hudson's- Bay. Let me add here, once for all, that I have had abundant proofs of the effects of these extraordinary refractions on altitudes of the fun, &c. taken from the horizon of the sea with Hadley's Quadrant this voyage. For, universally, I believe without a single exception, the east longitude shewn by the Watch K in the morning, fell short of that deduced from it in the afternoon, when both were reduced to the fame time by the Log, and that sometimes by io, 12, and even
ON BOARD THE RESOLUTION, 353 ' Morn. Noon. Even. Winds. 1774. Weather, &c. therm Barom. | Therm Therm 15 minutes of longitude : I mean when we were in high latitudes ; for, between the tropics. I seldom knew them differ more than 2 minutes, and not often so much as that. 5 Jan. zi. 33 28,9 34 32s [N.E. Mod. wind, and foggy. One ice island. F Feb. 1. 35 28,85 35 Ditto. Ditto, and cloudy. Several ice islands. 8 - 2. ' 35 28,75 37 33i 8. E. Ditto. One ice island. V - 3- 32L 28,9 35 34i Ditto. Little wind, and cloudy. ? - 4- 34 37i 29,0 34i 34 t N. E. Ditto, and mostly cloudy. T? -- 5* 28,72 3 H 38L North. Moderate wind, and cloudy, with snow. O - 6. 36 28,72 39 * S. W. Ditto, and cloudy: snow and hail. P - 7- 37 28,65 40 38 Ditto* Ditto, and cloudy. Saw divers. -7. 30,3 74f 74 Ditto. Ditto, and flying clouds. Sponge & sea-weed. F-8. 731 30,35 75? Ditto. Ditto. Birds, sponge, sea weed, &c. d-9- 74i 30,37 77 76s Ditto, Ditto. Sea-snakes, sponge, leaves, & birds. if.-10. 73 i 30,32 761 7° Ditto. Ditto. Many birds, sca-weed, &c. % -n. 75 30,3 75 751 N. E. Ditto. Saw Easter Island. 1
354 METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS 1 774 * Morn. Noon. •Even. Winds. Weather, &c. Therm. Barom. Therm. Therm. h March 112. 75 30,27 75 ? 754 Variable. Little wind, and flying clouds. G - * 3 - 751 3°,4 74 74 ? S. E. Moderate wind, and flying clouds. D - 14. 72s 30,27 744 744 E. S. E. Ditto. F .- - i 5 - 30,27 73 Easterly. Little wind, and very hot weather. 8-- 16. 7 i 30,22 75 764 N. E. Ditto, and flying clouds. 1 V- - 17• 754 - 30,3 77 763 Ditto. Moderate wind, and fine weather. ¥ -- 18. 75 i 30,32 764 Ditto. Ditto. - 19. 74 t 30, 2 5 77 764 East. Ditto. O - - 20. 75 t 30.2 77 Ditto. Brilk wind, and mostly cloudy. D -- 21. 754 - 30,25 77 Ditto. Moderate wind, and flying clouds. F -- 22. 744 - 30,2 764 754 Ditto. Ditto, with showers. s- 2Z- 754 30-r 774 754 N. E. Ditto, with flying clouds. % - 24 - 74 30, r 77 77 East. Ditto. ? --. 2A- 764 30,17 78 764 Ditto. Ditto. J} " ' 26. 78 30,1 784 784 Ditto. Ditto. G - - 27. 784 30,02 80 79 Ditto. Ditto. A- 28. 784 30,05 80 80 Ditto. Ditto. $ --- 20. 79 ? 29,97 81 8o| Ditto. Ditto. 8- 3 °. 79 30,02 804 80 Ditto. Ditto. 3 1 * 80 30,0 8 o 4 8oi Ditto. Ditto. ? April 1. 80* 29,97 81 81 Ditto. Ditto. h - 2. 794 29,95 8 i 4 81 Ditto. Ditto. O- 3 - 8o| 30,02 82 8 i 4 Ditto. Ditto. 4. 8 i 4 30,0 82* 824 Ditto. Ditto. g --- 5 - 81' 30,0 83 824 Ditto. Ditto. ^ , i -i 6. 814 29,97 834 824 Ditto. Ditto, with showers. it"-- 7 * 774 30,0 814 814 East. Ditto, with heavy showers. d .. 8. 82 29,97 824 824 Ditto. Brilk wind, in squalls, with lhowers. ^ - -- 9 - 82 29,85 844 844 Ditto. Strong gusts of wind, with lhowers. o - 10. 81 29,87 844 844 Ditto. Squally, with lhowers. J ... - 11. 81-I 29,85 854 854 E.S.E. Ditto. F ■ -. ■ 12. 844 30,02 844 814 8. E. Brilk wind, with lhowers. I 8 - rz- 79 29,97 82! 824 Ditto. Moderate wind, and mostly cloudy. 14. 814 29,90 82s 8z- East. Brilk wind, and flying clouds. ?--- iZ- 824- 30,02 83 824 Ditto. Brilk winds, and flying clouds. tz ........ 16. 82 i 30,02 834 83? Ditto. Ditto. 0 - 17 - 8 i 4 30,0 83L Ditto. Moderate wind, and flying clouds. V -- 18. 8 i 4 30,07 823. Ditto. Ditto. $ - 19. 814 30,1 823 82 Ditto. Ditto. 8- 20. 79 30,07 81 794 Ditto. Ditto, and cloudy, with rain. V- 21. 814 30,1 824 Variab^. Ditto, and cloudy. ¥- 22. 30,03 8ii Ditto. Ditto, and flying clouds. h - 23 - 884 30,11 884 824 Ditto. 'I O- 24 . 80 30,09 9 ° Ditto. D- 25. 30,02 78 Ditto. Moderate wind, and flying clouds, with <?- 26. 804 30,03 844 844 Ditto. * lhowers. 8- 27 - 80 30,18 92 84 Ditto. • if. - 28. 30, to ; 83 Ditto. - 1
ON BOARD THE RESOLUTION. 355 * 774 ' Morn. Noon. Even. Winds. Weather, &c. Therm. Barom. Therm. Therm ¥ April 2Q. 831 30,05 88- 87 East. Moderate wind, and tine weather. h 3 °- 8l 30,02 88- 86f Ditto. Ditto. O May 1. 834 30,04 904 904 E. N. E. Ditto. " 2. 30,11 894 s. w. Squally, with heavy showers of rain. t - - 3 - 82s 3°,°3 90 85s Ditto. Ditto. 8 - 4 - 8l 30,03 93 86- Ditto, Moderate wind, and fine weather. - 5 - 30,02 94 s 72 s East. Ditto. ¥ 6. 83 30,02 97 '7 24 Ditto. Ditto. h - 7 - 80 30,02 9 ik 79 i Ditto. Ditto. O 8. 8l 30,09 93 s 93 Ditto. Ditto. D - 9 - 82s 30,03 9 l 84 Ditto. Ditto. F IO. 30,03 84 77 s Ditto. Ditto. 8 n. Variable, Rainy, unsettled weather. V I 2 . 30,09 80- N. E. Ditto, with thunder and lightning. ¥ -- IZ- 30,12 81 East. Moderate wind, and fine weather. 1? - 14. 30,08 82s E. by N. Ditto. G - x 5 - 30,15 84* 83 - S. E. Ditto. D 16 79 k 30,2 84I 81 E. S. E. Ditto. * - x 7 - 79 30,15 83 83 E. by S. Ditto. s i8" 79 30,12 82- 81 last. Little wind, and frequent fiiowers. •u - 19. 77 30,07 8 of 8o|- Ditto. Moderate wind, and fine weather. ¥ 20. 79 30,09 824 80- Ditto. Ditto. h - 21. 79 30,11 84 81L Ditto. Ditto. O 22. 79 * 30,12 83s Ditto. Ditto. 3) 2Z- 78s 30,05 834 Ditto. Moderate wind, with showers, F - 24. 79 ^ 29,92 83 Variable. Ditto, and flying clouds. 8 - 25 - 79 ^ 29,92 78 S. E. Ditto, and cloudy, with rain. % -- 26. 77 1 29,45 8 i 4 E. S. E. Ditto. ¥ 27. 75 r 30,08 ? 9 i 804 iast. Brisk wind, and mostly cloudy. - 28. 76* 30,11 8 of 80- Ditto. Moderate wind, and fine weather. O 2Y. 75 t 30,03 82 81- Ditto. Ditto. i Zo- 75 30,02 784 82- Ditto. Ditto. <? 3 X - 79 i 29,98 80 81- Ditto. Ditto. 8 June i. 77 k 29,98 81 81 ? Ditto. Ditto. U - 2. 77 29,96 79 r 81 Ditto. Ditto. ¥ 3 - 77 i 29,95 79 81- Ditto. Ditto. b - 4 81 30,0 8 if Sil Ditto. Ditto. O - 5 79 i 29,97 82s 83 Ditto. Ditto, and cloudy. D - 6 8i|- 3 v,o 82s rsr. E. Ditto. $ - 7 - 794 20,8-1 8 if 80 Variable. Ditto, with rain, thunder, and lightning. 8 - 8. 78 29,97 80- 82 N. E. Little wind, and cloudy. V - 9 79 29,87 81" 81 Variable. Moderate wind, and mostly cloudy. ¥ IO. 76 29'95 77 s 771 S. E. Squally, with rain, and much lightning. h -- 11 77 30,05 77 t 77 Ditto. Moderate wind, and cloudy, with showers. O 12 74 30,1 75 Ditto. Brisk wind, with drizzling rain. v - 13 ^ 75 80 771 Variable. Moderate wind, and cloudy. F - 14. 751 30,0 7 5^ 76 s Ditto. Little wind, and flying clouds. 8 l 5- 751 30,1 7Si 75 t South. Ditto. ' 4 r
356 METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS 1774- Vlorn. I'herm. Noon. Even. Winds. Weather, Lc. Barorn. Therm. I'herm. A June j 6. 74 i 30,1 751 74f South. Moderate wind, and fine weather. ¥ -- t7> 73? 30.12 75 73 8. E. Ditto. 1? 18. 731 30,12 7°l Ditto. Ditto. O -- 19. 74 30,05 77 75 Ealt. Ditto. D 20. 751 30,1 774 76? Ditto. Ditto. - 21. 76 30.05 78 79 Ditto. Ditto. S 22. 76 30,07 774 76 Ditto. Ditto. n - 2 3- 7 6 ! 30.07 774 764 Ditto. Ditto. s •- 24. 761 30,07 79 7"l N. E. Ditto. b --- 25 78 30,12 77? Variable. Little wind, and hazy. O - 26. 76 30,1 75 78 Ditto. Ditto, and sine weather. 5 -- 27. 74f 30,12 74? 74f Ditto. Ditto. F --- 28. 74f Ditto. Ditto. L - 29. 74l 30,05 744 76I West. Ditto. V --- 3°- 74i 30,12 751 721 S. E. Moderate wind, and cloudy weather. ¥ July 1. 73 30,17 75 73i Ditto. Ditto. b -- 2. 72 30,15 72 722 Ditto. Ditto, and fine weather. O 3- 71 30,15 74 72? Ditto. Ditto. 3) -- 4- 74f 30,12 754 761 Ditto. Ditto, and cloudy. F - 5- 75 30,07 7.4 Ditto. Ditto. L 6. 74f 30.15 7 6 4 76? East. Ditto. V -- 7- 75 3°,I 77 771 Ditto. Ditto. ¥ - 8. 75i 30,1 78 North. Ditto. b - 9- 77 29,9 78 South. Little wind, with heavy showers of rain. O -- IO. 73? 29,92 742 74 S. E. Brsk wind, in squalls, with rain. 5 -- n. 73 29,9 74 75 Ditto. Brisk wind, and cloudy. F 12. 74? 29,95 76 7 St Ditto. Ditto. S - 13- 7 St 29,97 76 7 61 Ditto. Moderate wind, and fine weather. it - 14. 76 30,02 78 77\ bast. Ditto. r - 15- 7 6 ! 30,02 /9t 78 £ S. E. Ditto. b - 16. 78s 30,02 79? Ditto. Brisk wind, in squalls, with rain. G - i7- 78 30,05 764 Ditto. Heavy squalls ot wind and rain. 3) 18. 7 Si ZO.OS 76s 76i Ditto. Strong wind, and showers. * - 19. 75 30,02 764 7 6 ? Ditto. Ditto. s - 20. 30,12 75 74-4 Ditto. Moderate wind, and cloudy. -- 21. 74t 30,02 771 74 S. E. Ditto, and flying clouds. ¥ - 22. 74t 30,02 764 76 Variable. Little wind, and flying clouds. b -- 23- 76 29,97 80 77l N. E. Moderate wind, and cloudy weather. O -- 24. 76 30,0 794 Variable. Ditto. D 25- 77i 30,0 8 of 79 Ditto. Little wind, and sine weather. $ •-- 2 6. 7 8 ? 30,0 784 81 S. W. Ditto. " - 27. 74 3°>° 74? 741 Ditto. Ditto. it - 28. 7°4 30,02 7i4 75 Ditto. Ditto. ? - 29. 7°i 30,02 74 72! S. E. Ditto. b 30. 7°? 30,05 724 7 6 r Ditto. Ditto, G - 31- 73? 30,1 8i 7 Al Ditto. Ditto. 3) Aug. I. 73 30,12 734 7 6 ? Variable. Ditto. F 2. 73t 3°>i 784 78 South. Ditto.
ON BOARD THE RESOLUTION. 357 Morn. Noon. Even. Winds. *774* Weather, &c. Therm. Barom. 1 hern). Therm. L Aug. 3. 73 3 °,i 74 74t East. Little wind, and fine weather. V - 4. 7°? 30,02 78 774 West. Ditto. ? - 5- 734 29,89 78 S. E. Moderate wind, and mostly cloudy,. h - 6- 7 °i 2 9>93 74; Ditto. Moderate wind, and flying clouds. O- 7. 7 l k 7 U 7"t Ditto. Ditto. v - 8. 68; 30,14 Q 1 i OT Ditto. Moderate wind, and mostly cloudy# * 9- 7 1 f 30,13 73 t East. Moderate wind, and cloudy weather# L - 10. 7°4 30,17 74 N. E. Ditto. V - 11- 7 l 30,08 77 83; 75 + N. N. W. Moderate wind, with showers. r - 12. 7 2 k 30,08 8o| E. S. E. Moderate wind, and cloudy weather. J? - 13- 7 Ik 30,19 75 N. E. Little wind, and close, cloudy weather# 0 - 14. 72 30, l 1 76 N. N. W. Moderate wind, and mostly cloudy. 3 )- 15. 751 30,08 80 8i4 Ditto. Little wind, and cloudy. F 16. 76 2 9>97 79 i E. N. E. Little wind, and flying clouds.. 5 - 17- 782 30,12 79i 79 + East. Ditto, and cloudy weather. 1/:-18. 73 30,10 78 E. by N. Moderate wind, and cloudy weather# ¥-19. 77 30,02 79i 78 Westerly. Little wind, with showers. T} - 20. 7 2 L. 30,1 73 S. E. Brisk wind, and cloudy. O - 21 . 702 30,15 734 7 2 Ditto. Moderate wind, and mostly cloudy* r-22. 7°i 30,17 75t 74 East. Ditto. $ -23 7H 30.15 734 S. E. Brisk wind, and cloudy. 3 -24 7 H 30,1 81 8ot Ditto. Moderate wind, and cloudy. n -25. 79 k 30,1 81^ 81 Ditto. Ditto. ? - 26. 76| 2 9,95 8oz Ditto. Little wind, and Ene weather.. j?-27. 741 30,02 79 t East. Ditto. 0-28. 78f 30,0 784 82; Variable. Ditto. D - 29. 78 30,1 80 S. E. Ditto. $ - 30. 76| 30,1 79 78 Ditto. Mbderate wind, and fine weather. 3 -31. 76 30,1 77 79 Ditto. Ditto. V Sept. i. 74 30,12 75 East. Ditto. ?-2. 741 39,15 764 76 Ditto. Vsoderate wind, and cloudy. *-3. 72 3°, 1 734 74 Ditto. Moderate wind, and cloudy ; rain at times. O-4- 73 30,15 74 74f S. E. little wind, and cloudy. j>-5. 30,12 74 754 E. by N. Ditto. <?-6. 70-L E. S. E. little wind, with flying clouds. S-7- 72f 30,05 75 S. E. Brisk wind, with flying clouds#. is-8. 72| 30,06 72L E. N. E. Ditto. ? - 9. h - 10. O - 11. 741 7i 70s 30,11 30,08 30,16 744 75 764 7i4 75 73 Ditto. East. Ditto. 1 Strong wind, and cloudy, with rain at | times. 3 ) - 12 . 72| 30,14 76-1 734 Ditto. Brisk wind, and cloudy weather.. $ -13. 72 30,1 77 Ditto. Moderate wind, and fine weather.. s - 14. 74i 30,07 764 79 Ditto. Vfoderate wind, and cloudy weather. I* -15. 74 29,92 80 83 N. E. Little wind, and fine weather. ¥-16. 76 30,02 77 + 80*- Variable. Little wind, and hazy weather. h -17. 75 30,06 77+ 764 East. little wind, and fine weather. O-18. 75 k 30,15 79 Ditto. Jttle wind, and cloudy rain at times. 3) - 19. 72 30,15 734 Ditto. Ditto.
358 xVIETEORO LOGICAL OBSERVATIONS 1774. Morn. Therm Noon. Even. Win 8 s. Weather, &c. B;irom. Ehei in. Therm. <f Sept. 20. 73 30,-2 734 73 irast. Moderate wind, and fine weather. L-- 21. 7 1 3 0 ,15 73? 734 Variable. Ditto. "4 --r 22, 7 l % 30,12 , 73t 7-4 Ditto. Ditto. ? -.23. 7i 30'15 73 734 DittO. Little wind, and fine weather. h -24. 72 30,12 73 72 Ditto. Ditto. Q-25. 7if 30,15 73i 744 Ditto, Ditto. P-26. 7 2 30'17 734 734 S.E. Ditto. F -27. 68| 30,17 68! 69 Ditto. Brisk wind, and fine weather. S -28. 68| 30,2 71 694 Ealt. Ditto, and cloudy, with showers. If - 2y. 70 30,17 74 744 Ditto. Moderate wind, and fine weather. ?-zo. 7.1 30,05 73 / 0 * Variable. Little wind, and fine weather. h Oct. I. 68 29,85 7o4 694 South. Brisk wind, and fine weather. O - 2. 66 • 2Q,Q2 664- 69s S. W. Little wind, and fine weather. v-3- 68 29,87 68! 684 Ditto. Brisk wind, in squalls, with showers. * - 4. 66 29'97 694 69 West. Squally weather, with fog and rain. L-5- 64s 29,95 644 654 S. W. Brisk wind, and fine weather. if - 6 . 62 30,22 65 684 Calm. Little wind, and cloudy weather. ?-7. 63 30,3 7i S. E. Ditto. 1 ? - 8 . 64I 30,3 65 L 644 Ditto. Moderate wind, and fine weather. G - 9. 62I 30,32 64? 624 South. Ditto. P-10. 61L 30,25 6.34 S. E. Ditto. $ -11. 65 30,2 664 644 East. Ditto. 8 - 12 . 63? ^ 30,25 661 65 N.E. Ditto. If -13. 62 30,22 654 63 Ditto. Ditto. ¥-14. 6l; 30,17 65? 614 Ditto. Ditto. h --15- 60 30,02 654 North. Brisk wind, and cloudy weather. 0 - 1 6. 59f 29,82 634 Variable. Ditto, with lightning and rain. P - 17. 58 2 9,55 59 594 West. Strong wind, and cloudy, with showers. # - 18. 29,64 55t Ditto. Brisk wind, and cloudy. L- 19 - 29,87 57 S. W. Strong gusts of wind, with rain, and cold weath. •4 - 20. 29,97 55 Ditto. Strong wind : weather cold and rainy. ¥ - 21. 29,19 584 Westerly. Moderate wind, and fine weather. T?-22. 29,74 61 684 S. S. E. Ditto. O - 23. 63I 30,1 65 654 Ditto. Ditto. P - 24. 65 3 0 ,04 70 64 S. W. Ditto, and cloudy weather. $ - 25. 65t 29,68 Variable. Moderate wind, and mostly cloudy. Z - 26. 69s 29,6/ 7 1 664 Westerly. Ditto, and cloudy. 4 -- 27. 56 29,72 584 Ditto. Ditto. ¥ - 28. 62s 29,67 68 64 Southerly. Ditto, and mostly cloudy, with rain. J?- 29. 55i 29,42 58^- S. E. Ditto, and cloudy. G 30. 55 29,43 56 i Ditto. Strong wind, and heavy rain. P 3 1 • 63 29,6 68 67 V ariabie. Moderate wind, and fine weather. F Nov. I. 63 4 2 9,7 66 S. E. Strong wind, and fine weal her. L-2. 61 29,38 65'- 43 S. S. W. Brisk wind, and fine weather. i;-3. 62 29,51 63 48 S W. Moderate wind, and fine weather. ¥-4. 69 29'55 72s 53 t litto. Ditto. < h 5. 62| 29,75 734 66 Variable. Brisk wind, and hazy weather. 10-6. 594 29'78 59l Ditto. Brilk wind, and drizzling rain.
ON BOARD THE RESOLUTION 359 Even. Therm Winds. Weather, &c. 58 Variable. Strong wind, and heavy rain. S.W. Brisk wind, and cloudy weather. 62 W esterly. Moderate wind ; mostly cloudy, with rain. Variable. Ditto, and cloudy weather. 62 s N. W. Little wind, and cloudy. 64 W elterly. Moderate wind, and ditto. N. N. E. Little wind, and foggy weather. Westerly. Brisk wind, and foggy, with rain, 52 Ditto. Moderate wind, with rain. 52 East. Brisk wind, and fine weather. 5 1 N. W. Ditto, and cloudy, with rain. North. Ditto, and foggy. Ditto. Ditto. N. E. Moderate wind, and foggy. N. W. Strong wind, thick fog, and rain. Southerly. Moderate wind, and foggy. 48 s West. Little wind, and foggy weather. N. W. Brisk wind, and foggy weather : Penguins. 43f Ditto. Ditto, and fine yveather. Ditto. Ditto, and foggy : Many birds. 43? North. Ditto, and cloudy. N. W. Strong wind, with rain and thick fog. Ditto. Moderate wind, and foggy : Sea-weed. N. E. Little wind, and thick fog. S.E. Moderate wind, and foggy, with rain. Ditto. Ditto. Ditto. Ditto. 41 I S. W. Brisk wind, and cloudy. Ditto. Ditto, snow and rain. 43 West. Ditto, snow and hail. 48 Ditto. Moderate wind, and cloudy, with showers. N. W. Ditto. Easterly. Little wind, and foggy, with rain. Sea-weed. 444 S. W. Brisk wind, and cloudy : rain at times.. 444 West. Ditto, and cloudy. 46 s Variable. Ditto, and fine weather. 45? West. Moderate wind, and cloudy. 45? Ditto. Brisk wind, and fine weather. 45? Ditto. Ditto, and squally, with rain. 464 Ditto. Moderatewind,&fine weather. Penguins, sea-weed, Sjseats, 47 Ditto. Squally, with showers. Made Cape D isle ad a. 5° N. W. Brisk wind, and fine weather. 48 N. E. Little wind, and fair weather. 53? East. Ditto. N. N. W. Wind moderate, and fine weather, but cold. East. Little wind, and cloudy, with showers. 494 Variable, Moderate wind, with showers, and cloudy. 49! Ditto. Ditto, and mostly cloudy. 1774. Nov. 7. -9 -11. -12. - IZ. -14. - I 5- -16. -- i7- - 18. -19. -20. - 21. --- 22. -24. -25. - 2 6 - 27. - 28. - 29. -30. Dec. 1. 5 $ 5 ? 6 - 2- - 3- -4' - 6 -7 - 8 . -9. - 10. - x 1. - 1 2. -iZ> -14, - 15. -16, - 1 7- - 18. - 19. - 20. - 21, - 22. - 23. - 24 Morn. 1'he; m, Noon. Ba; 56 554 60 5$ ± 58 58 54! 54 494- 47 i 48| 474 48 45-4 44 434 43 424 43 43 43? 434 451 45 45 44 43 40 4i4 394 43 431 434 44 424 43? 52 444 44! 44 45 454 47! S 2 471 46 rh"rm 29-5 29'4 2 9>35 29,6 29,65 29.6 29.75 29,42 29,42 29,45 29,35 29'45 2 9>5 29.7 28.85 29,4. 29,45 29.85 29,87 29,85 29.77 29,62 29'75 29,97 2 9>57 29,47 29,27 29,15 29,37 29,35 29,2 29,05 28,92 28.82 28.75 28.77 28,75 28,9 29,05 29,17 29,17 29,4 29,55 29,62 29,52 29,68 29,89 29.82 584 64 62 64! 60 6i4 56 534 51 s 50 50 ! 5°4 49 46 43 * 444 44 s 46 45! 434 444 434 454 47! 45! 45 r 45 4i| 434 43 464 47 47! 464 44 44! 47 464- 461 46 47 47 5°! 54 57 58 ! 5 1 ? 50
360 METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS 1774- Morn. Noon. Even. Winds. Weather, &c. Therm. Barom. Therm* Therm. o Dec. 2§. 47 29'3I 534 Easterly. Moderate wind, with rain and fleet. " -2 6. 47 29,57 49 49 Ditto. Ditto, and fine weather. F -27. 29,55 5i4 Westerly. Ditto, and cloudy weather. S -28. 29,7 5°f S. W. Ditto, and foggy, with rain. n -29. 48 29,7 504 524 West. Brisk wind, and squally, with rain. r -30. 54 29,65 5 6 t 54 N. W. Ditto, and cloudy. h 50 29,35 S 2 ? 514 W. N. W. Ditto, and cloudy, with showers. 1775. O Jan. I. 52 29,62 54 s. w. Ditto. D - 2. 47 29,65 484 5 1 ! Weft. Brisk wind, and squally weather. F - -■> 3 49 29,62 524 Ditto. Moderate wind, with showers. S - 4. 47 29,62 51 Ditto. Brisk wind, and cloudy : rain at times. n 43 29,6 47 454 Ditto. Ditto. ¥ 6. 43 29,52 4i4 43 Ditto. Moderate wind, and cloudy. h . 7 # 40 s 29,72 40-4 43 Ditto. Brisk wind, and fine weather. O - - 8 44 29,5 49 5°4 North. Moderate wind, and ditto. r - 9. 43 £ 29,35 434 N. W. Brisk wind, and foggy. Seals and sea-weed. F 43 29,15 45 West. Moderate wind, and foggy. L __ j j. 4 2 i 29,2 47 45 S. W. Ditto, and cloudy. Porpoises and birds. -12. 404 29,2 424 Variable. Ditto. Penguins, seals, and sea-weed. ? _j 3 , 40 29,17 39 37 S. E. Moderate wind, and foggy. Several penguins. h -14. 35 29,37 374 374 Variable. Ditto, and cold cloudy weather. G -*5- 34t 28,7 35? S. E. Brisk wind, with snow. D - 16. 34 29,25 39? S. W. Moderate wind, with snow and sleet. F -17. 35 29,45 394 39t V ariable. Ditto, and fine weather. S - 18. 374 29,6 43 4i4 S. W. Ditto. st 19. 374 30,0 2 45 42 Variable. Moderate wind, and cloudy. r -20. 39 29,72 44 39 Ditto. Ditto. h -21. 38 29,5 39 40 South. Little wind, and foggy. I cannot help re- marking, that all the time we were off, and in the neighbourhood of, South Geor- gia, whenever the Southern winds blew, the cold was much less severe than when they blew from the Northward. G -22. 334 29,82 394 N. E. Little wind, and foggy weather. p -2 3 37? 29,22 39 Ditto. Ditto, and thick fog. ? 37 29,0 41 North. Ditto, and foggy. Whales. 2 -25. 39 29,12 40? 394 Ditto. Brisk wind, and thick fog. Whales. V -20. 42|- 29,2 414 N. W. Ditto, and foggy weather. Whales& penguins. ? -27. 39 29,22 39 36 North. Moderate wind and foggy. Many whales, penguins, & c. h -28. 344 29,12 37 334 Ditto. Ditto, fog, rain, and fleet. Whales, pen- guins, petterals, and ice islands without number. G -- 29. 344 I 29,2 I 39 I iNorth. (Little wind, and cloudy. Still many whales, penguins, ice islands, and birds ot various forts. V - 3 0 34t 29,25 35 N W. Brisk wind, and thick fog. Much ice. F -31. ■ 3?4 29,15 37 394 West. Moderate wind, and thick fog. Saw land. 2 Feb. 1 33i 29,17 39 35 Variable. Little wind, and fine weather. st - 2. 344 29,2 36 37 Ditto. Ditto, and foggy. Many penguins, &c. ? ' 3. 34t 29,0 36 S. E. Moderate wind, and foggy. r 84t 28,87 38 Ditto. Little wind, and ditto.
ON BOARD THE RESOLUTION. Z6- 1775- Morn. Noon. Even. Winds. Weather, &c. Therm Barom. i herm. Therm. o Feb. 5. 3 6 i 29,15 38* 37 Westerly. Moderate wind, and foggy. Six ice islands. r 6 . 3 6 29,17 38 N. and W. Brisk wind, and cloudy. Snow at times. Ice. $ -- 7. 3 4* 29,0 37* 35* s. w. Strong wind, and cloudy. Several ice islands S - 1 ■ 8* 35* 29,17 37* Ditto. Moderate wind, and cloudy. Ice islands. % - 9. 35* 29,25 40 40 V ariable. Little wind, and cloudy, with snow. Ice. ¥ -10. 33 29'32 34* 34 S. W. Brisk wind, and mostly cloudy. Ice. h -- 11. 33* 29,52 36^ V ariable. Little wind, and cloudy: snow at times. Ice. Q - 12. Z2i 29^7 37* 35* S. E. Little wind, and mostly cloudy. Much ice. D -IZ- 28,97 33 Ditto. Moderate wind, and cloudy : snow at times. S - 14. 29 28,92 32* 37 S. W. Brisk wind, and squally weather. Some ice. Having completed 360° of Longitude, I here dropped the circle, and repeated a day. F -- 14. 3 4* 29,27 35* 35* S. W. Brisk wind, and cloudy: snow at times. Ice. S 15- 35 i 28,97 36* East. Little wind, and cloudy : sometimes fleet. n -16. 33 28,87 33 33* Southerly. Brisk wind, with sleet. Several ice islands. ¥ -- 17. 33 29'S7 36 36* N. and W. Moderate wind, and fine weather. Some ditto. J? 18. 33 29'47 34* North. Briskwind,andcloudy,with sleet. Severalditto. O -19. 28,92 35* W. N. W. Ditto, and foggy, with sleet. i -20. 34* 28,95 40 Variable. Ditto, and cloudy. Little ice. 5 5°* N. W. Ditto, and foggy weather. D 6. 5i* 29,82 52* 54 West. Ditto, and cloudy. F -7. 57 29.95 6i t 60* N. W. Ditto. S 8. 61s 29,87 64 North. Moderate wind, and cloudy. 'V -9. 62 29,57 63* 56* West. Moderate wind, and cloudy, with rain. ¥ -10. 53l 29,82 52? 52* S. W. Moderate wind, and cloudy. % -1 l. 5 1 30,02 5i*. West. Little wind, and cloudy weather. O -- 12. 59 30,12 62 63* V ariable. Moderate wind, and ditto. v rZ. 67 29'85 7 1 72* N. W. Brisk wind, and squally, with showers. $ -14. 7 °t 29,65 72* 7 °t Ditto. Strong wind, and cloudy. L - 1 5. 69 29,87 72* 69 West. Brisk wind, and cloudy weather. V -16. 66 30,2 69 68* Variable. Little wind, and fine weather. ¥ 17- 69 50,15 70 69* Westerly. Moderate wind, and ditto. 1? - 18. 68 30,05 70* S..W. Ditto, and cloudy. O 19., 63* 30,2 65! 65? S. E. Brisk wind, and ditto* 3) --20. 65 30,07 66| Ditto. Variable weather. <? - 21. 30,08 75 76* Ditto. Moderate wind, and fine weather. j i.
362 METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS 1775- g March22. n -23. s -24. b-2 5- o -26. L-27. F-28. S -29. n -30. h April 1. O-2. 5 - Z. * -4- - 5. - 6 . -7. ■- 8 . -- 9 - -- 10. - I !. - 12. - 13. -14. -I 5. - 17 . -l8. -19. -- 20 . - 21 . -22. -23. -24. ■ - 7 5 - -26. -27. -28 --29 - 30. May 1 ■ - 3 J>-8. Morn. Noon. Even. Winds. t herm. Barom. Therm. Therm. 30,03 77 73 66 29,92 694 59 30-07 64 6 3 f 57 t 30,28 657 65 6 5 t 30,2 71 694 68s 30'15 73 i 73 64s 30'04 7 1 694 66 3 O '05 7*4 70 69 30,1 75 75 66f 30,08 734 67I 30'05 80 73 30,0 784 80$ 691 29,94 8i 804 72 29,98 75 ZO-OZ 72 7 1 T 30,01 7 Si 7 i 69! 29,9 77 76 66 29,86 68 654 65 30,02 69 63I 63I 30,02 68| 674 614 30,02 69! 64 61 30,01 68 67 6zi 3 °, 0 694 64 614 29,95 65 614 64s 30,-7 644 66 66 30,18 70 7 o 4 67 30,04 734 734 63I 29,94 684 62 29,87 6.34 59 i 29,84 644 65 30,0 66 30,15 66 N. W. 3°,34 62 S. W. by S. 6 3 l 30,32 684 South. 64 30,07 66 S. S. E. 62 30,15 6 3 i Ditto. 6 3 t 30,2 663- 65 S. E. by E. 641 30,05 664 661 S. E. 67 3 °,° 69 674 Ditto. 66\ 30,0 674 67 Variable. 67 30,07 67 Calm. *44 30**5 65 67 S. S. E. 65 5 30,2 674 66 Ditto. 6-i 30,22 68 664 Ditto. 4 r > 1 Weather, &c. All the former part of the time that we lay at the Cape of Good Hope, the weather was fine and clear, and the wind Southeasterly ; but pretty early in April it began frequently to veer round to the North-west, and towards the latter end was almost constantly there. Whenever this happened, the air was thick and foggy, with rain and cold raw weather ; but if the wind returned to the East, or South east, though for an hour or two only, the weather cleared up, and the fogs which, with the North-west winds covered the hills down to the very skirts of the town, were dispersed, or, at least, hung only about the very tops of them. Cloudy, with showers, and brisk wind. Moderate wind, and cloudy. Brisk wind, and fine weather. Ditto. Moderate wind, and sine weather. Ditto. Ditto. Ditto. Little wind, and sine weather. Drizzling rain at times; but fine weather. Moderate wind, and cloudy: rain at times. Moderate wind, and clou y. Ditto, and sine weather.
0'T l +°.£Kc a *fO'3 i+0 £i , " 0 *te ; 0'^ +0 £! KXO *"0'T l +o£i"xOi"'0'T - 19. 79 i 30,07 82 794 N. E. Ditto. S -- 20. 80 30,02 81 8o| N. E. Little wind, and fine weather. K - 21. 79 l 30,05 83 81 N. E. Brisk wind, and fine weather. 4 -22. 80 30,05 84s 8 of N. E. Moderate wind, and fine weather. ¥ - 23. 78 30,02 80 80 N. E. Ditto. h - 24. 76s 30,1 78 E. N. E. Moderate wind, and cloudy. O-25. 76 30,1 82* 79 N. E. by E. Brisk wind, and cloudy. 5 A
364 meteorological observations 1775- Mm. Therm. Noor . Even. Winds. Weather, &c. Barom. Therm Therm. p June 26. 7 6 30,17 78 1 787 N. E. by E. frisk wind, with showers. $ - 27. 757 30,!7 78 77 E.N. E. Moderate wind, and fine weather. 8 -28. 75 30,22 78 80 5,ast. Brisk wind, and cloudy : showers. n -29. 7 57 30,27 81 h. by N. Moderate wind, and cloudy. ? ■- 30. 7 6 7 30,37 804 80 Ditto. Brisk wind, and fine weather. h July 1. 74 s 30,45 767 76 hast. Moderate wind, and fine weather. 0-2. 737 30,37 75 75t h. S. E. Moderate wind, and cloudy. 5-3. 74 30,4 74 75 Ditto. Ditto. $ -4- 73r 30,45 75 74 hast. Ditto. , 8-5. 73' 3°,5 75 76 Ditto. Little wind, and sine weather. It - 6. 74-7 30,52 767 75 Calm. Fine weather. ? 7- 74 30,5 77 i 767 E. S. E. Little wind, and fine weather. h -8. 74 30,42 7 6 7 79i Variable. Ditto. O-9- 731 30,35 767 787 W. Ditto. s -- 10. 74 ■ 30,35 767 767 Ditto. Ditto. $ -11. 767 30,3 2 76 76 s. s. w. Brisk wind, and cloudy. 8-12. 73 30,22 757 75 Ditto. Ditto. V - 13- 72 30,3 744 74 S. by W. Moderate wind, and flying clouds. ?-14. 7*7 s. w. Ditto. h -15 767 Ditto. Brisk wind, and cloudy. ©-16. 767 N. W. Moderate wind, and cloudy. D -- X7- 767 West. Ditto, and mostly cloudy. F-18. 777 Westerly. Ditto, and fine weather. 8-19. 7 2 t 30,15 78 74 S. W. Brisk wind, and cloudy, with rain. Of.-20- 677 30,17 767 77 7 N.E. Moderate wind, and mostly cloudy. ?-21. 697 30,17 ?o'- 74 N. N.E. Ditto, and fine weather. h -- 22. 66 l 30,1 747 73t N. W. Ditto. Q - 23. 66 i 30,02 697 72 Ditto. Brisk wind, and fine weather. 5-24. 6zi 29,95 697 70 Ditto. Ditto, with showers. $ -2 5. 637 30,05 67 68 West. Moderate wind, and fine weather. 8-26. 604 29,77 64 634 Ditto. Brisk wind, and squally. U --27. 62s 29,72 S41 69 Ditto. Moderate wind, and fine weather. z -- 28. 6i7 29,75 647 65 Ditto. Ditto. h -29. ' 6 i 4 29,85 624 64 N. W. Brisk wind, and hazy weather. 0->30. 604 I Westerly. Moderate wind, and fine weather. In the preceding Journal, the civil day is to be understood; namely, from midnight to nvdnight. In my account of the weather, I have endeavoured to be as particular as possible, consistent with the plan I had prescribed to myself, of confining the remarks of one day to a line, except on some particular occasions, where the circumstances required, and, as I thought, merited a more ample description. And as many of the terms which I have made use of, though meant here to convey very different ideas, may be looked upon, and are really used by some persons, as synonymous •, I shall here endeavour to give a short explanation of the sense I would wish them to bp understood in. By the term Fine Weather , is to be understood such weather as was in general clear, at least where few clouds were abroad: if the word Clear occurs, it is to be understood that the air was at that time remarkably clear and serene. By
ON BOARD THE RESOLUTION. 365 Flying Clouds, I express that weather where we had large clouds, obscuring a considerable part of the hemisphere; but which moved pretty quick, and did not continue long in a place. I have put Mostly Cloudy on those days, the greater part of which the heavens were overspread with settled clouds, but whereof some parts of the day were pretty clear. Those days are called Cloudy whereon the fun was but seldom, or perhaps never distinctly seen: the term also includes thole days on which he was not seen at all. By the term Showers, 1 wish to express those days whereon we had alternately rain and fine weather; and by Rain at times, those on which the sky did not clear up between the showers, but remained settled cloudy weather. Cloudy , with Rain, denotes rain for the greater part of the day, at least; and also those days on which we had constant rain from the beginning to the end, of which we had some few. Those days are denominated Hazy on which the face of the heavens was overspread, as it sometimes is, with a thin grey cloud -, or when the fine blue sky was in some measure obscured by a very thin mist. The terms Foggy, and Thick Fog, as well as the degrees of comparison which are annexed to the wind, will, I flatter myself, be sufficiently understood without farther explanation. It may be necessary to add, that.it always froze when my thermometer fell to 33 0 , and sometimes when it stood at 33°! ; and, therefore, I conceive the freezing point, on that thermometer,, should not be taken lower than the last-mentioned number.
ME ■ivfzotii-
A Z I M U T-H 8 OF THE SUN'S CENTER, Taken with an AZIMUTH COMPASS; TOGETHER WITH The Altitudes of his Lower Limfy taken at the fame Time, with Hadley's Sextant, FOR Determining the Variation of the Magnetic Needle, On Board His Majesty's Sloop RESOLUTION, In her late Voyage on. Discoveries towards the South. 5 "
'A :l T "a o : l -.. -"" "." '-cviat i ^ } h ' si ; *k JeX*Zt*y?
ON BOARD THE RESOLUTION. 369 1772 Altitude of the H's L. L. Magnetic Azimuth of the Q's Center. No. of Obf.| Variation West. 0 ' O O r June z 6 . 9 3 8 N. 85 34 E. 3 20 I 2 f II 21 ^- N. 86 234 E. 3 l 9 224 13 9 i N. 89 H E. 2 i 9 47 ? s -- 30 . 1 53 N. 3 1 264. W. 2 23 14 Amplit. N. 27 45 W. 1 24 20 11 8^ N. 89 26^ E. 3 22 iof 12 2^ N. 90 35 E. 3 22 13 s July 1. 6 42 N. 3 6 40 W. 3 25 3 l 6 i 7 t N. Z6 334 W. 3 24 38 s . . 21. 12 32 N. 49 56 W. 5 23 58 21 8* S. 77 49 E. 5 20 45 s -- - 22. i 5 2 3 t s. 81 *61 E. 3 16 7 s. 80 26* E. 3 u - ■ -■ 2 Z- Azim. 22 45 v 27 . Ditto. 20 23 v $ Aug. 3 * 4 - Ditto. Ditto. *5 14 50 57 Amplit. 15 0 n - 6. Azim* 13 11 ? - 7 - Ditto. 14 39 Amplit. 14 40 0 _ _ 9- 12 59 l N. 65 §0 W. 6 12 2 1 5 2 °'t N. 6 5 11 W. 5 IO 44 Amplit. N. 63 27 W. 1 IO 59 F 18. Azim. 9 6 : n - 27. 6 6 N. 6 10 w. 1 13 28s 16 47^ S. 85 i 5 E. 7 13 33 ? 28. 10 39 t N. 67 9 W. 5 13 59 9 20-j- N. 95 28; E. 8 14 13 0 3 °" 15 22 N. 66 52s W. 2 14 57 i r> -- 3 1, l8 22-y s. 81 574 E. 7 15 52 n Sept. 3 - 15 47 t s. 82 46 E. 5 14 i 4 £ r 4 6 18A N. 68 0 W. 5 15 ni Amplit. N. 68 30 W. 1 14 43 v -- 7- 19 * 3 r s. 81 37 E. 5 14 15 u -- 10. 14 ni s. 82 43 t E. 9 12 32 r _ 11. Azim. II 44 Amplit. 11 40 h -- 12. Azim. 12 23 Ditto. 12 26 0 Ditto. 9 53 8 16. Ditto. 7 17 Amplit. 7 53 0 20. Azim. 5 7 Amplit. N. 4 3 D 21. 12 20 90 21 E. 5 3 49 Latitude North. Longitude West. Observers, and Remarks. O ' O / 1 Observed by Captain Cook. Dungeness bearing W. | N. two or three leagues. { Portland N. £ E. about 15 miles. Mr. Gilbert. The Start N. W. by N. 4 W. distance about 6 or 7 leagues. Observed by Captain Cook. The Start N. W. \ W. and Berry Head N. N. E 43 3° 9 18 Mr. Gilbert. 43 42 9 18 42 4 r T 10 6 42 4ii 10 6 Mr. Gilbert. 4i 44 10 42 Mr. Gilbert. 33 27 i5 37 Capt. Cook. z 9 5 T 7 40 Mr. Gilbert. 28 19 18 40 Observer unknown. 28 19 18 40 Ditto. 24 41 19 20 Ditto. 23 31 19 30 Ditto. 23 31 >9 30 Ditto. 19 33 20 45 Ditto. 15 45 23 18 15 44 23 20 ii 11 21 22 Observer unknownj 4 2 II 36 3 49 i IO 40 3 38 IO 6 3 18 9 23 2 34 7 3 2 I2| 5 4i 0 51 8 40 0 45 9 15 0 44 9 i7 0 IOf 8 35 2 53 11 55 3 3 18 18 12 12 21 ; 21 ' Observer not known 4 21 13 0 Ditto. 4 5 6 * 14 7 5 24 14 3 2 Ditto. 9 5° 18 ° Ditto. 9 5° 18 0 J 16 1 20 23 ; Ditto. 1 16 3 20 24 : 18 26 21 15 1
37 ° ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS 17/2 • I Altitude of the 0 'e L. L. Magnetic Azimuth of the 0 's Center. 7 O O *+i O Variation West. Latitude South. 0 0 * 0 / O v Sept. 21 . Amplit. N. 3 43 19 2 s 23- 12 59 tV 82 24 i W. 6 3 16 20 28 ¥ - 25. 6 385 S. 89 15 E. 4 2 8 24 6 9 59 f S. 90 351 E. , 7 2 *9 24 6 h _____ 26. 10 254 s. 95 1 W. 5 2 24 25 9 74 s. 94 *7 W. 5 i 53 24 2 5 Amplit. N. 92 40 W. 1 0 5 ° 24 25 15 23 s. 94 32 E. 5 0 39 24 401 O -- 27. 20 °4 s. 95 3 ° W. 7 2 5 24 5 '\ Amplit. s. 89 0 w. 1 1 15 24 52 Ditto M. 1 1 1 r 25 12 " - 28. 8 504 s. 88 50 E. 5 2 36s 26 46s L 3 °- 8 57 t s. 87 36 E. 5 3 m 4 27 20 % Odt. 1. 5 384 N. 87 0 W. 3 27 28 6 5 6 4 s. 84 "7 E. 9 27 3 1 " -- 5 - 9 I I-5- N. 84 33 f W. 9 6 rZ 28 59 i h ■ - 10. 1 5 04 N. 79 394 w. 7 8 3 °f 34 3 °i O ..■ 11. Azim. w. 8 3 ° 34 47 i D - 12. 16 9 r N. 79 394 7 8 3 °i 34 52 f h 1 1 7 ' l 5 §44 N. 76 304 w. 7 14 9 i 35 0 D 19. 22 16 4544 §64 N. N. 7 i 75 49 37 w. w. 5 5 15 15 9 f 23 34 24 & -- 20. 14 424 N. 75 55 w. 8 16 564 34 57 14 44 S. 7 i 344 E. 6 H 59 35 '9 L ... 21. I X 54 N. 79 8 W. 7 >5 §6 35 52 5 , 1 1 ... 26. Azim. 20 57 34 25s Ditto. 21 26s 33 40 S .- 27 . 26 24 N. 67 5 W. 5 21 34 33 41 8 28. 18 §4 N. 73 14s w. 7 21 30 33 45 l ¥ Nov. 27. 23 *74 N. 79 37 w. 5 *9 7 40 19'i 20 144 N. 81 1.5 w. 5 s 9 55 40 20 ¥ Dec. 4 - 14 1 5 434 1 54 S. s. §6 57 43 i i 8 f E. E. 8 3 16 16 4 2 t O -.- 6. l 9 5 §4 N. 83 57 t w. 7 *7 5 u; '48 48 ' 15 5 i 4 N. 87 39 r w. 7 18 38K s .- 5 J_ 9 . 10 184 S. 49 454 E. 6 16 32 i A O 1 1 5°4 s. 5 ' 464 E. 8 16 26 50 > 0° S 1 6 . 34 554 s. 76 49 E. 5 22 9 r 55 87 ■st ■.. - 17- 5 2 tV s. 76 23 W. 10 21 9 t 2 6 i 55 st h . - ■ 19. 12 84 N. 89 Jf W. 10 22 54 15 D 21. 16 14 N. 86 i 4 W. 8 21 47 ? 54 407 a 22. - 5 324 s. 3 l 58 E. 5 23 56 55 17 h 26. 17 58 N. 85 42 W 5 -9 37 58 324 l 3 9 f- S. 86 4 W. A *9 14 58 32' Longitude ' West. 21 46 22 7 2 3 3 2 23 3 2 23 51 23 5 1 23 5 1 23 §lr 23 5 1 23 5 1 23 3 1 20 36 18 36 l 7 59 17 34 11 30 8 8 6 48 6 24 East. 4 40 7 40 Observers, and Remarks. Observer not known. By a compass of Gregory's making, which hung on friction wheels. By a Knight's compass. Mr. Pickersgill. Mr. Pickersgill, Mr. Gilbert. Ditto. 7 7 7 55 35 36 14 50 15 10 15 3 8 *5 42 16 27 16 27 18 10 18 16 21 8 23 44 24 i7 25 56 29 45 3 1 58 26 24 26 20 Observer not known. Obs. by the shadow of the thread. By looking at the sun. Observer not known. Ditto. Mr. Gilbert. Mr. Pickersgill. Mr. Clerke.
ON BOARD THE RESOLUTION. 37i 1 773 * v Altitude of the 0 's L. L. Magnetic Azimuth of the Q's Center. 0 0 J? Jan. 2 . 19 42 to. 89 18 w. 16 II S. 84 45 w. 15 14 t S. 84 42 w. -3 14 S. 79 52 W. n - 7 . 9 36 S. 32 414 E. 13 354 S. Z 9 84 E. S - 8 . 10 10 J S. 32 30 E. O -- 10 . 5 5 U S. 29 194 E. l 3 534 s - 43 594 E - r - 11 . 8 b' 4 - S. 32 26 E. 8 484 s - 34 33 E * 9 554 S. 36 53 E. i° 43 t S. 37 30 E. 2 l ! 19 5 1 N. 69 30 W. 19 11 70 0 W. 18 15 SI. 72 22 W. ?j- 16 . 20 5 t V M. 68 49 W. 18 10 A N. 72 494 W. 1 ; -. 21 . 20 154 N. 62 314 W. 19 2 3 f N. 64 4 W. 18 39 s s. 64 27 W. S- 22 . 24 8 b. 60 19 s E. Q- 24 . 8 484 N. 76 13 s W. 4 394 N. 84 39 s W. N C 4 1 I 7 * 17 24 N. 65 56 W. 1 14 57 -rV 69 O-rVW. j 10 4 f N. 74 7 k W. n - 28 . 8 0 76 0 W. G 31 . Amplit. N. 86 37 s W. O Feb. 2 18 44 s N. 65 554 W. 15 354 N. 69 334 W. 14 354 N. 71 29 W. 12 53 k N. 72 57 I W. 12 274 S. 46 394 E. -3 42 S. 48 24 s E. n - 4 . 14 10 N. 70 12 s W. 5 13 N * 75 254 w - ? - 5 - 12 4 Z 4 N. 68 374 W. 11 34 N. 69 16 i W. h - 6 . 3 84 N. 77 i 2 | W. 1 O - 7 . 6 55 r N- 73 5 i 4 w - * -- 9 18 184 S. 62 2 E S- 12 . 12 40 s N. 62 534 W. 12 39 t 3 . 50 174 E. '3 32 3 . 52 514 E. O- 14 . 20 04 SI. 46 334 W. 2 0 Varia- Latitude Longitude ■.- 1,1 * "ni a". 0 c West. South. East. Observers, and Remarks. cr O ' O ' O * 12 5 l2 5 iZ 11 328 28 6 29 7 22 9 5 5 2 5 2 3 2 3 7 2 3 58 58 58 58 61 61 61 62 62 64 24 28 28 428 5|2 7 627 I 64 I 64 3 i 31 32 33 3 35 34 31 3i 4 33 1 33 1 30 7 27 27 27 27 7 5 2 632 632 27 33 30 3 1 32 831 27 832 16s 3 33 55 k 19 53 42 50f 3 °f 47 12 33 54 o 10 22 9 12 13 23 23 30 i4i 24* 22f 31 s 4 49 52 f' 48 2 27 f. 54l I 49 85 j 49 f SI i 51 5 o£ 5°2 50 9 10 3° 44 47i II 63 53 55 ; 554 ! 62 284 60 57 57 56 56 56 53 50 27 5 °f I 48 s 6^ 6-k &k 49 13 il 34 33 736 2 4 j- 8 33 33 45 k 10 12 55 49 7 48 374 37t 34 85 84 52 65 Z2 404 48 49 49 53 10 Z4 10 33 10 33 10 22 3 i 42 3 i 47 34 40 37 25 37 27 38 22 39 20 39 10 42 6 45 12 49 52 5 1 35 52 31 57 3 ° 60 24 61 20 59 2A 59 22 59 6 60 25 63 8 65 10 7 1 25 72 57 74 50 Mr. Gilbert. Mr. Clerke. Capt. Cook. Mr. Pickersgill. Mr. Cooper. Gregory's Compass.' 1 A Knight's ditto. /Capt Gregory's ditto. Cook. Another Knight's. J' Gregory's Compass.! r A Knight's ditto. Another Knight's 00 ^' Capt. Cook. Mr. Gilbert* VTr. Clerke. Capt. Cook. Mr. Gilbert. Mr. Pickersgill. Capt. Cook. Greg. Comp. Mr. Clerke. Ditto. Mr.Gilbert. AKnight'sdit. Capt. Cook. Ditto. Mr. Clerke. Mr. PickersgilJ,' Capt. Cook. Capt. Cook. Capt. Cook. Mr. Gilbert. Mr. Cooper, Mr. Gilbert. Capt. Cook. 5 C
37 - ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS 1773* Altitude of the G't L. L. Magnetic Azimuth of the K's Center. 2: c 0 c Variation West. Latitude South. Longitude East. 0 0 ' 0 0 O 5 Feb. *5* 18 274 N. 45 0 fa. 6 39 11 57 4 80 9 12 19 N. 5 6 494 w. 8 36 534 57 6 80 12 II 28 N. 56 40 w. 6 38 22 57 6 80 12 S ■ i7* 4 39 S. 33 50 E. 4i 45 : 57 54 83 6 33 I4f s. 87 23 E. r 1 39 35 57 544 83 40 % 18. 17 16 57t 59 N. N. 44 45 45 20 W. W. 5 6 37 38 44 ; 45 ! 58 2 4 84 42 14 324 N. 48 6 W. 5 39 58 j 58 2-4 84 42 4 574 N. 62 264 W. 37 84 I 58 5 84 48 ? 1 1 19. 8 10 274 244 S. S. 42 43 15 32 E. E. 5 5 40 42 53 " }58 49 *■ 49 9i 2 h -- 20. 1 r 26s N. 5i 2 of W. 9 40 13 58 464 9i 58 9 84 N. 54 33 w. 5 40 49 58 46 9i 59 rZ *4 42 334 3. S. 57 58 18s 6 E. E. 6 5 35 35 £ U 55t 92 45 O - 21. 2 r 94 s. 65 574 E. 4 40 59 19 93 55 - 2 5' 12 264 N. 43 1 4t W. 7 42 29L 7 60 49 4 96 10 11 8 N. 44 16 w. 7 43 45 i 7 4144 S. 44 56 E. IC. 4i 23 - 60 58 8 46s s. 47 36 E. 6 40 31 ( 97 26 9 35 4 8. 48 x 9 E. 5 4i 174 60 8 March 3 • 22 27 N. 22 2lf W. 7 39 154 I2| no 52 h 6. 15 i if N. 41 47f W. 7 32 59 56s 119 7 o 7- 10 *3 64 53l S. s. 69 73 25f H E E. 7 4 28 3i 33 ] 47 J 59 44 121 18 D - - - 8. 11 9 171 547 N. N. 53 53 25 40 W. W. 8 5 26 28 12 ! 25 2 i 69 44 121 20 S 10. 10 29 3 L S. 88 26s E. 3 11 39t ' 1 12 ibj S. 89 374 E. 4 l 3 384 57 52f 130 2 14 12f S. 9 1 52 E 5 <3 29 If -- 1 r. ro 45 N. 86 32s E. 7 8 24 H 16 N. 83 364 E. 3 11 46 38 H 5 8 4 N. 82 3° T E. 7 11 574 58 554 '31 x 7 40 N. 7 1 40 E. 2 6 i8f 1-9 26s N. 70 5° E. 3 9 44 h ' *3- 13 13 59 '9 N. N. 63 62 5° 61 W. W. 3 7 ! 0 444 i33 50 r - 15- 27 28 42 i 18s N. N. 36 3 8| .36 0 E. E. 4 6 O 2 52f 142 24 East. 9 16. 11 40 i N T , 73 30 W. 4 0 27 58 53 143 55 % 18. '4 34 N. 8r 46s w 9 l 4 12 56 74 ) 10 9 7 344 S. s. 9 1 85 0 5 a w. w. 3 4 x 3 1 7 44 19 56 56 5^ 3t 150 10 8 "7 s. 86 50 w I •4 214 56 3 j 56 h 20. 14 2 9-4 N. 83 33 r w. 5 '3 41 52 48 j 154 Observers, and Remarks, Mr. Gilbert. Mr. Pickersgill. Ditto. Capt. Cook. Mr. Pickersgill. Capt. Cook. Mr. Clerke. Capt. Cook. Mr. Clerke. Mr. Pickersgill. Mr. Gilbert. Capt. Cook. Mr. Clerke. Mr. Burr. Mr, Gilbert. Ditto. Mr. Gilbert. Gregory'sCompass. i Capt. Knight's ditto. j Cook. | Mr. Pickersgill. Greg. Comp. Ship's head N. Knight's ditto. Ship's headS. Gregory'sditto. Ship's head sout'r. Ditto. Ship's head northerly. Knight's ditto. Ship's head south'r. Ship's head S. S. E. Ship's head N. E. Capt. Cook. Capt. Cook. Ditto. Mr. Gilbert. Capt. Cook. Ditto. Mr. Gilbert.
ON BOARD THE RESOLUTION. 373 1 773 Altitude of the ©'> L. L. Magnetic Azimuth of the E's center. No. of Obf.| Variation East. Latitude South. Longitude East. Observers and Remarks. O ' 0 0 0 ' 0 i t> March 20. lZ 24A N. 84 14 W. 5 12 43 52 474 ; 154 12 20f N. 87 56 W. 5 14 52 52 47 5° Mr. PickerlgiH. D 22. l6 58s N. 81 37 w. 3 13 32 • Mr. Gilbert. 14 194 N. 85 454 w. 3 14 37 49 riO 1 *59 Ditto. 12 35i N. 87 56 ? w. 4 14 3i 3° Mr. Clerke. 11 10 A N. 88 29 w. 5 13 14 F -- 2Z- lS io| N. 83 3 f w. 3 I 2 194 47 29 ■ 161 Mr. Gilbert. 12 49 N. 87 3 2 r w. 6 13 54 47 28 54 Mr. Gilbert.' 8 -- 24. 18 53i N. 78 18* w. 4 12 7 46 234? 55 l 7 581 N. 78 48 w. 5 II 26 46 23fi D June 14. 12 21 * N. 22 364 E. 3 11 43 4 6 4*4 185 50 S - 1 5- 8 45tV N. 52 274 W. 7 II 16 46 52 ! 186 4 Ship's head Eaft. 2 - 22. 9 447 N. 51 25 W. 6 9 3? 44 374 196 30 s 23 - 8 34t N. 55 35 w. 7 11 21 44 374 *97 53 Ditto, South. L ■ " ' 28. 4 71 N. 45 50 E. 1 42 374 198 39 12 5 j t N. 32 184 E. 3 7 544 42 39t 198 424 - - 29. 3 464 N. 45 *9 E. 5 7 40 43 5 i99 40 11 14 N. 33 4l E. 5 8 45 43 54 199 45 n July 1. 11 517 N. 48 25 W 5 6 55 43 74 201 587 6 25 N. 40 44i E. 6 6 59f 43 2OZ 8 ? 2. 7 57 N. 55 45 W. 6 5 59 43 24 20 Z 20 10 33 t N. 36 28 E. 5 7 io| 43 14 2O4. 23 i? 3- 8 274 N. 54 58 W. 5 8 13 43 22| 2O4. 58 ? - 9- 8 474 NT. 44 2 74 E. 9 2 47 2 - 43 2 74 215 20 T? - 10. 15 414 N. 3i 434 E. 7 4 5 43 33 t 217 50 O - 11. 11 4'f N. 48 44 W. 5 5 35i 43 327 218 3° 12 4i N. 36 304 E. 7 5 35 43 174 219 26 v - 12. 8 14 N. 53 594 W. 6 5 4 43 i4r 219 57 h 17- 8 4 t N. 48 40 E. 7 6 16 38 44 226 32 O -- 18 . 11 17-rv N. 56 434 W. 7 5 5 37 49 226 46 D - 19. 9 3 6 1 N. 65 224 w. 7 5 335 3b 254 227 5 14 53 t N. 43 54 E. 5 6 54 35 35 226 57 8 - 21 . 15 2 j4 N. 48 564 E. 3 4 51 - : 3 1 187 225 40 % - 22 . 12 55§ N. 61 5° W. 6 5 2 it 3° 474 22Z 3 1 8 4 °t N. 55 114 W. 7 5 34 29 34 225 6 i - 26. 10 x7l N. 66 20 W. 5 5 244 28 43 224 41 10 43^ N. 56 7 E. 5 4 594 28 1 224 55 F -- 27. 11 ir N. 55 0 E. 4 6 i8t 27 43 224 41 O Aug. I- 11 I5 t N. 59 22 E 7 5 16-t 23 25 226 3 D 2. 8 43 t N. 62 18 E. 5 4 26 22 22 226 15 -i*-- Z- 12 7 i N. 70 12 W. 5 5 i4 22 0 226 16 8 - 4 lZ 4^T N. 70 6 W. 5 5 10 21 12 226 3° F 10. 13 534 . N. 62 Sf E. 3 6 30 *7 174 2l8 15 n - 12. 16 64 iV. 61 354 E. 7 6 45 17 i6| 2l 5 24 Mr. Gilbert. h - 14. 10 57 N. 63 4i E. 5 7 24 17 42s 211 5° 5 24- 9 i7t N. 69 2 7 E. 5 5 544 : *7 29 j 210 40
>£■ o "o ©" x" © ?* o+" ?t o*_ . ©►£■© 5 17 5*4 50 44 5 - 7. 21 47'!' I 23 204 S. s. 62 35 66 36 w. W 6 5 18 1 9 164 27 5° 53 184 45 22 o s. 67 I'it w. 6 15 J9 53 46 L 11. 28 24 s, 78 of w. 10 15 44 61 *34 __ 12. 12 344 s. 46 39 \v. 5 16 494 63 63 ro4 12 i T % s. 44- 494 w. 6 17 3° 104 18. IO 18 64 26 19. 2Z 547 3. 73 384 w. to 12 8 64 534 - - 1 24- 24 37t 23 10,4 8. I s - 69 2:1 69 13 w. w. IO IO l8 15 ft I 6 ' i 4 Longitude East. Observers and Remarks. 208 524 Knight's compass. Lo8 52^ Gregory's ditto. 206 10 205 20 203 47 2OZ 15 194 36 192 5 189 38 Mr. Gilbert. Ditto. Mr. Gilbert. Mr. Gilbert. Mr. Gilbert. 185 si 185 2 184 45 184 40 x8o 13 Mr. Pickersgill. 179 56 Mr. Gilbert. 179 57 i79 56 Mr. Clerke. *79 55 Mr. Clerke. 179 56 180 12 179 12 176 5 176 45 179 59 179 44 CO O 4Z 187 45 . 190 55 209- *3 211 45 223 20 1 Mr. Gilbert. Mr. Gilbert. Capt. Cook. Ditto. . Pickersgill. Uncertain because Mr. Gilbert. ofslll P'* raotior - Mr. Pickersgill.. Log Book. Gregory's compass. Knight's ditto.
ON BOARD THE RESOLUTION, 375 1 773 * Altitude of the O's L. L. O 0 Dec. 26. 22 to Hh 22 7i L ■-29. 21 23 t n - 3 °. 19 454 ? 3 1, 19 27 i 8 33 t 1774 - b Jan. 1. 15 4 i 4 l 5 214 Vr - 6. 18 14? r - 7. 13 284 12 59 t F - 11. 13 4 1A 28 36A S -12. >5 I2i *3 54 O -16. 12 13A 10 53t s -- 19. 18 3 8 4 b -22. 23 i6f v -24. 34 404 35 334 36 26^ 3 -25. 14 I2| 21 3 3i ? -28. 9 44r 27 I l 4 6 29 J 9 42-4 *9 234 D -31. 22 IOf it Feb. 3. i 9 33-4 i 7 134 21 594 24 224 ¥ -4 -9 584 6 .. § >5 324 14 417 -10. 18 534 18 10 b -12. 5 24 O -3 16 347 v -14. '5 4°? 14 6t ¥ -18. 14 305- b -19 14 1 4 ty O -20. 14 33 t Magnetic Azimuth of the 0's center. No.ofObs.j 0 ' s. 67 53 t W. 6 s. 66 154 w. 6 s. 66 17 w. 10 s. 64 16s w. 10 8. 7 1 237 w. 10 S. 46 197 w. 10 S. 57 3 °i w. 10 S. 84 26 E. 10 S. 69 35 w. 4 s. 64 39 t w. 8 s. 77 18 E. 5 8. 69 54-4 W. 9 S. 9 1 0 E. 10 S. 69 4 8 i w. 8 S. 67 37 w. 6 s. 61 2t w. 6 8. 59 3 ° w. 8 8. 92 327 E. 6 S. 82 if W. 10 N. 40 3*4 E. 8 N. 28 5 t E. 8 N. 3i 0 E. 4 8. 56 7 f W. 6 N. 69 ii 4 E. 8 8. 87 234 E. 7 3. 44 374 E. 9 8. 67 2>4 W. 8 3. 66 12 w. 5 N. 5i 57 E 5 3. 70 384 W. 10 3. 64 45 * w. 10 N. 57 104 E. 6 N. 50 9 E. 5 8. 67 3 1 W. 5 S. 66 514 w. 6 8. 64 35 w. 5 S. 75 45 w. 5 3. 75 13 w. 5 S. 60 437 w. 6 3. 74 234 w. 10 S. 75 464 w. 8 S. 73 3 A w. 7 8. 74 28s w. 6 S. 77 324 w. 9 8. 80 28" w. 10 0 / 0 15 40 66 5 15 40 66 5 >4 29 62 8 -3 43 4 61 7 59 3 8 12 24 59 3 6 t Longitude East. 226 30 226 30 225 5 8 225 22 ; 225 14 Observers and Remarks. 14 4 13 27 7 n 6 22 6 26 2 41 1 35 4 37l 4 54 t 9 23s 8 49 10 26s 9 48 15 48-s- 25 27I 19 38 19 264 18 22 23 11 22 us 24 46 24 32 28 32 23 H 23 34 23 2 5 r 24 477 27 7 t = 18 49s 19 22 z- '5 3 2 ■5 5 13 55 t 14 4° 12 31 £ 12 58 13 16:: 10 54. 7 21 i- 5° 47 5 8 4. 5 1 40 50 17 49 37 48 21 ^ 49 11^ 150 7 ^56 57 62 28 49 28 43 40f 41 41 39 32 224 3 223 22 225 6 227 20 229 50 238 30 239 53 240 35 240 47 4f 154 16 16 62 65 65 65 65 45 66 19 ' 69 304 69 43 ^ 70 20 [ 68 13 | 66 16s I 65 4 7i I 65 47 s 6 5 34 63 57t 63 574 53 7 50 1 1 5° 30? 244 248 250 AZ . 250 45 250 40 251 57 252 16 253 3 255 *5 25 s 45 |260 24 | 260 14 1260 8 262 50 264 35 263 36 264 4 265 45 265 3 266 o Gregory s compass. Knight's ditto. Ditto. 1 Ditto 1 cloudy. Ship's head E. 1 Knight's Ditto, N. W. > compass. Ship's head, N. W. K's comp Knight's compass. Cloudy, and much motion. Mr. Clerke. ^ Knight's compass. Gregory's ditto. Knight's ditto. Gregory's ditto. Knight's ditto. Gregory's ditto. Ship's head, 8. S. E.T Ditto, S.W. by W. I Capt. Ditto, S. S. E. j Co "' Capt. Cook. Ditto. Mr. Clerke. Capt. Cook. Mr. Clerke. Ditto. Gregory's compass. Knight's ditto. Mr. Clerke. Capt. Cook. Ditto. Mr. Pickersgill. Mr. Clerke. Mr. Pickersgill. Great motion. Gregory's compass. Knight's ditto. D
376 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS *774- Altitude )f the G'r L. L. Magnetic Azimuth of the D's Center. | O Variation East. Latitude South. Longitude East. Observers, and Remaiks. O - O 0 / 0 O ' o Feb. 20 •3 2 3t N. 8 5 4A- E. 11 8 3 38 22 26 6 18 Gregory's Compass. 3) -21. 22 4i| N. 78 3 if E - 6 7 41 36 24 265 54 Ditto. 8 -23 *5 *54 S. 79 i3t W. 6 9 5A 36 49 263 9 Ditto. l6 54 t N. 80 32 E. 10 8 8 37 16 262 5 Knight's Compass. ? -25 '3 18 S. 81 574 W. 10 6 5° 37 44 259 21 Ditto. o T "' 1 a 7* ti 244 8. 83 33 W. 10 4 9 34 3 A 257 57 Gregory's Compass, v - 28. 20 3 t N. 8.3 84 E. 9 3 A 32 272 257 25 F March i. 12 I2-J. S. 84 184 W. 10 4 23 32 6 257 30 Gregory's Compass. '6 54 N. 83 21-4 E. 8 5 4 3 * 25 257 42 Knight's ditto. 8 --- 2. 14 3 6 t 8. 85 19 W 10 5 o-*- z 3 3 1 5 257 52 Ditto. -- 3 9 2 3 t 8. 83 84 w. 8 4 26s 30 2 54 258 45 Gregory's Compass, 12 46 N. 84 56 s E. 10 5 >3 30 8 259 3 Knight's ditto. ¥ - 4 12 194 8. 83 587 w 6 5 40 29 5 >k 259 16 Ditto. 12 264 N. 83 II-4 E. 9 6 53 29 46 259 27 Ditto. h -- 5. n 49 t 3. 84 19-4 W. 8 5 264 29 42 259 24- Gregory's Compass. o -6 9 44 t 3. 84 36 w. 10 4 11 29 11 258 48 Knight's ditto. D > .... . 7. 12 I 5 ^ TT N. 84 511 E. 10 4 3 1 28 2 256 26 8 -16. 10 4 6f 8. 89 64 W. i3 4 304 27 7 250 7 Off Easter Island. 15 Zv4 N. 80 4r E. 8 3 324 26 56 249 50 V - 17. 8 25s N. 83 40 E. 10 3 15 26 16 f 248 50 ¥ -18. 4 40-1- 8. 88 394 W. 7 2 47 25 54 248 Z5 it 504 N. 81 21-4 E. 8 3 4 r 25 36 248 20 h -19 9 577 3. 90 3*4 W. ' 6 3 29 24 324 248 7 14 364 N. 80 444 E. 8 3 54 23 265 247 40 V - 24 -4 5 Sr N. 8 5 394 W. 6 1 52 1 6 545 243 10 . ? -2 5, 9 52-4 N. 82 28s E. 10 2 3 l k 15 6 241 0 h -26. 9 33? N. 87 50s W. 9 2 38 14 2 64 240 18 l 7 37 N. 80 35f E. 10 2 23I 13 3i 239 20 O " 27* 9 3 °% N. 87 ID W. 5 2 10 12 55 238 45 10 524 N. 82 294 E. 8 2 13 12 3 3- 237 45 D -28. 9 304 N. 87 28-4 W. 8 2 3i I I 30 2 37 10 >i 364 N. 82 10 E. 10 2 17 10 394 236 20 F -29. '0 354 N. 87 38s w. 10 3 3 10 10 235 40 -6 544 N. 80 30 E. 6 2 43 i 9 34f 233 20 8 -30. 9 284 N. 81 6 E. IC 3 14 9 184 232 8 if -- 31. 9 8 4 W 79 55 E. 10 4 3 9 27 230 14 ¥ April 1. 9 5 8 4 N. 79 29I E. 10 3 56 9 2 84 228 26 J? -2 s 314 N. 78 5"i E. 10 3 58s 9 321 226 44 O - 12 .224 N T . 77 52 E. 10 4 15 9 325 224 58 ., 1 * ]> -4 14 29;- N. 76 50 E. 7 4 27 9 331 223 20 Cloudy. $ -5. 9 334 N. 77 42| Eh. 10 4 13! 9 21 . 222 2 8 ■ 6. 8 554 N. 76 4 E. 10 5 331 9 36s 22 1 IO 12 144 N. 81 224 w. 6 1 28 9 55 i 220 51L At anchor in Resolution Bay, in the island Ohicahcso, one of the Marquesas. 1 can assign no reason for the imall- ness of the preceding variation, if it was not occasioned by drawing the binacle a little towards the larboard fide of the ship, to have the fun clear of lorne plantains which were hung up aft.
ON BOARD THE RESOLUTION. 377 1774 Altitude of the 0's L. L. Magnetic Azimuth of the 08 16 45 t 16 451 16 454 16 45! 208 16 49s206 17 33 204 17 374203 17 40 203 17 487202 17 51 202 18 407 197 l8 344'97 18 32 197 18 25 197 1821 • - I 8 O-j - y v. l8 l6 194 18 225 193 18 54s ' ' '9 34 19 20 '9 2 7 f '9 43 20 242 20 12 20 264 185 5 ?f 5°3 208 232 > In Owharre harbour, Hua- heine. The two first were taken on board the ship, the two latter on shore. I used the same compass, but two different cards. Taken on board the ship in Ohamaneno harbour, Ulia- tea. I used the same com- pass-box in every one, but two different cards. On shore in Ohamaneno harbour. Cloudy, and uncertain. Ship's head W. S. W. Ditto E. S. E. Ditto W. S. W. I '1
378 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS Altitude )f the D'b L. L. Magnetic Azimuth 2 O Varia- Latitude Longitude *774- of the K's Center. O O East. South. East. Observers, and Remarks- 0 0 cr 0 / O 0 ' o June 2 6. 5 5/4 N. 51 17 E. 10 11 51 20 15 185 29k Ship's head E.S.E. 1 > v -- 27- 6 84 N. 71 24-t- W. 6 9 7i 20 15 185 291 Ditto N. E. 2,o " Amplit. N. 74 20 W. 1 9 18s 20 '5 185 291 Ditto N. E. ! Jr- 1 Amplit. N. 55 20 E. 1 9 4'i 20 15 185 29s Ditto E. N. E. f 1 §1 11 >7f N. 50 11| E. 10 9 29I 20 1 5 185 29s Ditto E. N. E. F -- 28. 7 38-I- N. 71 35 E. 8 9 59 i 20 '5 185 29s Ditto E. N. E. j jrj* S 29. 7 45s N. 73 26 W. 10 11 49 T 20 10 185 25 Ship's head S. S. W. 18 5 t N. 44 39-4- E. 8 11 81 20 184 40 Ditto N. W. h July 2. 10 2Z4 N. 47 56 E. 10 12 47 '9 45 182 '3 - O - 3- l 3 3°4 N. 71 6| W. 8 12 9 19 4 8| 182 0 10 404 N. 48 414 E. 5 11 52s '9 58 181 40 , 5 - 4 3 5*4 N. 76 9 W. 10 12 17 20 lO* 181 20 Amplit. N. 78 10 W. 1 12 40 20 11 l8l 18 5 5 6 £ N. 50 281 E. 8 12 29I- 20 34r I 80 44 F -- 5- 10 24 14. 48 0 • E. 3 12 44 20 52 1 79 34 Mr. Clerke. S - 6. 16 3*4 N. 44 44 E. 10 12 -7r 20 534 178 41 V 7- 12 3t N. 46 544 E. 10 12 59 20 47i 177 50 Cloudy. ? -- 8. 6 5 2 t N. 49 47; E. 10 i3 8 20 20 176 23 Cloudy. 0 .... 10. 6 5 N. 74 4Z4 W. 7 11 1 19 304 *75 08 9 4 8 t N. 51 564 E. 8 10 214 18 494 175 14 Ditto. D -- 11. 10 3-rV N. 52 19 E. 10 10 28J '7 M '74 29 Gregory's Compass. Knight's ditto. $ - 12. 5 8 184 264 M. 54 464 N. 20 E. E. 6 6 10 10 244 ' 16 ■ 37 '73 38 -s -- '3 6 144 N. 75 304 W. 10 10 35 16 "5l '73 '5 Gregory's ditto. Knight's ditto. 7 3 l i N. 54 304 E. 10 10 '3* 15 49 172 42 V - 14. 11 284 N. 52 30 E. 10 11 3f 15 '3r 171 38 Ditto. r - 22. 23 334 N. 49 204 E. 6 9 lfci 16 24 167 53 Capt. Cook. Ship s Comp, o - - 24. 15 5 N. 51 49 E. 10 11 24 17 6 168 36 s 25. 12 3t N. 74 13 W. 5 9 364 -7 23 163 38 >0 12 N. 56 504 E. 6 8 444 17 2i4 168 38 5 26. '4 1 5 t N. 54 25 E. 10 9 18I 17 52 s 169 10 S 27. *3 5i N. 73 20 W. 5 9 2 i 18 12i 169 3o 6 14 4 N - 55 '94 E. 6 12 6 18 25 1 6q 47 Ship's head S. W. if- 28. 10 16s N. 77 59 W. to 12 124 18 24 169 46 8 424 N. 56 30 E. h 10 7 i 18 2 5l 7 Knight's Comp. Ship s head S. E. 12 9 t N, 56 21 E. 8 43 18 261 j'7° 3 Ship's ditto. Ship's h. ditto. 1 3 14 A N. 55 46 E. 5 8 47 18 26; Gregory'sdit. Ship'sh. ditto Knight's dit. Ship'sh. S.W, ? 29 10 284 N. 78 13 \v. to 12 r 9 18 34i 1170 3 1? 8" >0 8 21-4 224 N. 78 64 N. 79 48s w w 8 6 12 12 2 6 Z/i 18 18 32 2 9l 5 '69 42; Gregory s ditto. 7 Sh Knight's ditto, J S. ps h. S. W. 10 16 N- 55 9 t E 6 11 19I 18 2 3? j '69 34 Gregory s ditto. I Ship s' h. 1 2 49 N - 55 5o4 E 9 38s 18 m Knight's ditto, j Easterly. 0 3- 9 45 N. 78 164 W. 6 11 2-4 j Ditto. ] Ship's 8 34-r- N. 78 454 w. 6 11 264 [18 241 169 32 Gregory's Comp. ? head Amplit. N. 81 45 w. 1 11 3i J Ditto. j South. 18 5 J- N. 50 44.-4 E 6 12 "i 1" 244 169 '5 Ship's head S. W.
ON BOARD THE RESOLUTION, 379 1774 • Altitude of the 0's L. L. Magnetic Azimuth of the A's Center. No ofObf.| Variation Raft. Latitude 8 'uth Longitude East. O 0 0 0 ' O ' Aug. i. l 3 OrW N. 77 54 W. 6 11 38s 18 47 J 69 xo *5 59 t N. 53 84 E. 6 11 6f 18 44 169 2 F - 2. 8 *4t N. 78 494 W. 8 XO 534 ,8 42 ! 169 2 Amplit. N. 61 45 E. 1 XO IOf l8 364 9 N. 58 34 t E. 6 8 8 18 36 l69 1 '5 xo N. 58 25 E. 6 8 494 18 3 6 !. 8 3 - 5 I If N. 61 11 E XO 8 27 18 43 169 20f U -- - 4 - 7 *3tV N. 58 37k E. 6 10 18 19 264 169 44 8 41^ N. 58 37k E. 6 9 3 °i *9 264 i6q 4 + Q 2 I. 5 8 4 8t 20f N. N. 64 63 SH 564 E. E. 4 3 10 10 25 i 204 ; 18 39 168 55 2> -,- 22. 9 374 N. 64 284 E. 8 10 91 16 52 168 35 S -- Amplit. N. 88 20 W. 1 ■15 55 167 25 s V 1 " 1 ■ 25 9 3 N. 64 544 E 7 11 26z 15 6f 167 3 ? - " 4 ^ N. N. 69 66 15 2 o 4 E E 1 8 10 52 14 >4 45 45 166 1 66 '56 §6 h --- 27 - 15 1 N. 62 58 L E. 8 12 I 4 i *4 474 16 6 35 O -- 28. JO 22f N. 86 94 W. 6 9 15 14 484 166 37 r 5 2 Z 4 • ■N. 64 54 E. 6 11 194 "4 574 166 34 f - 30. 9 49 t N. 86 26J W. 4 8 47 i *5 6 64 N. 88 5 W. 3 9 124 2 Z 4 166 35 U Sept. I. 8 H N. 70 54 E. 6 8 3 "i *7 46 165 28 r --- 2. *5 27 t N. 85 5*4 W. 8 xo '4 iS 21 165 22 7? 3- 6 iof N. 89 6| W. 10 9 23 *9 144 164 50 8 33.'°- N. 69 10 E. 6 9 444 ] l 9 164 xo 46.'o N. 67 354 E. 6 10 25 k j 50 44 8 -- 7 - 7 24 N. 73 3 E £ 7 59k ' 8. 8 54 N. 72 22 E. 5 8 15 "4 6 8 °4 24 T N. N. 73 72 46 22 E. E 5 5 7 8 424 3°k >20 18 164 40 r --- 9- 10 3'r N. 7 i 3 E. 10 9 25 o 11. 10 12^ N. 72 3 E. xo 9 22f J 8 14 . 6 25s N. 73 2 7r E. 8 10 524 19 10 164 0 n 15- X X 3H N. 88 264 W. 6 9 14 l 9 164 164 6 9 4 I- ro- N. 72 3i4 E. 6 11 6 19 334 ' xo 564 N. 72 47 i E. 6 XO "4 19 33 164 17 16. 12 x 4 t\t N. 72 264 >E 6 10 24 l 9 33 s 1 ■■■-" ls 534 N. 89 25 W. 8 9 22 \ 19 34 164 23 7? ■■ ■' " ■■ * 7 - x6 26f N. 72 * 7 i E. 2 20 2 164 58 r ■- 19. XI 494 N. 73 i 5 E. 6 10 52 l 3 144 N. 73 29 t E. 6 XO 34 '20 25 165 50 14 5 'f N. 72 5r4 E. 6 10 2 . s - 20. 14 104 S. 86 464 W. 6 10 04 12 444 s. 85 304 W. 6 xo 404; ►20 52 165 50 II 264 8. 85 464 w. 6 9 53 - 9 55 A N, 75 7/° E. 6 xo J2 | 20 52 166 8 J"E Observers, and Remarks. Knight's Compass. I ? Gregory's ditto, | ^ C g g Knight's Comp. 7 Ship's h. Ship's ditto. S S. S. W. Gregory's Compass. Knight's ditto. Ship's Compass. Ditto. Knight's Compass. Cloudy. Gregory's Compass. Ditto. Knight's Compass. Vlr.CIerke. Gregory's Comp." Gregory's Compass. Ditto. Knight's Compass. Gregory's Compass. Knight's ditto. Capt. Cook. Ship's Comp. Ditto. Gregory's ditto. Ship's Compass. Knight's ditto. Ship's ditto Gregory's ditto. Ship's ditto. Knight's ditto. Gregory's ditto, Ship's head Easterly,
380 ASTRONOMICAL observations 1774. Altitude of the 0 's L. L. Magnetic Azimuth of the 0's center. No. of ObfJ Va ti E ria- on ast. Latitude South. Longitude Eait. O f 0 , ' 0 0 8 Sept. 21. 5 47 s. 83 4s W. 6 9 58 20 57\ 166 10 Amplit. N. 8 x 30 E. 1 2 I 12f 166 /I 9 9 33i N. 77 49i E. 6 7 5 2 4 1 21 124 > 22. 10 9 47 i 5*E S. S. 85 85 3 1 47 W. W. 5 5 9 8 12 i 224 s 21 37 t 166 5° 11 2 N. 76 23r E. 6 9 0 j 21 494 167 2 ¥ - n- 1 1 39* N. 73 58 T E. 6 11 3 2 i 1 21 57 167 28 O 2 5- 11 12 9 rV 4It N. N. 77 77 2X4 84 E. E. 6 6 9 8 114 ? 454 i 22 94 167 28 U 29. 7 9 5 6 4c *5* N. N. 80 80 55 21 E. E. 6 5 8 8 34 ? 39 \ 22 28s 167 *7 r -- 30. 10 24t S. 8x. 74 W. 7 10 12 $ ] 9 "4t S. 80 384 W. 6 10 **4 [ 2 2 4* 167 25 Oct. 7 53t s. 78 57 i W. 6 11 *9i J 0 2. 11 8 *1 47^ s. s. 81 80 04 5-4 W. W. 6 3 9 9 52s r 2 5 23 *94 169 40 5 -- 3* 10 3°t N. 80 364 E. 6 9 x 94 j 25 *3 8 12 5 2 f N. 78 49i E. 6 9 434 i *7* s - 4. 8 29! s. 78 484 W. 6 10 29 25 464 171 2"4 12 554 N. 77 15 E. 6 11 224 I 26 334 171 35 L - - £. 11 55t N. 75 7§ E. 6 14 IO *3 *8f N. 75 35t E. 6> 12 58 f27 54 171 47 14 46 N. 74 5 E. 6 x 3 404 . n 6, 10 44t s. 80 6 W. 5 9 5° j 27 52 17* 45 8 465 s. 78 21 w. 5 10 264 j *5 of N. 76 484 E. 8 11 x 74 . 27 524 171 45 ? - 7- 9 *3i N. 77 4o4 E. 6 *3 53 xo I7A N. 77 34 E. 6 *3 54 ^28 *64 170 45 12 35t N. 76 554 E. 6 12 474 1 h 8. 4 5^t S. 73 47 W. 5 12 1 ( | 4 1 5 A S. 72 18 w. 5 l 3 164 >28 374 170 *9 3 1 64 s. 7 1 64 w. 6 l 3 54 J D 10, >3 18 N. 79 o4 E 6 11 28s H 59t N. 78 64 E 6 11 2 54 -29 5t 168 10 16 34 N. 78 25 E. 6 10 *54 $ - 11. 13 394 S. 78 20 W 6 11 *9 12 3 i s. 77 534 W 6 IO 5*t 29 37 168 2 IO 344 S, 78 7f w 6 9 474 *4 24t N. 79 if E 8 10 544 3 ° 354 167 5* s - 12 21 41 N. 76 9t E 6 8 53 32 39 168 10 n - '3 12 204 5. 80 15 W 7 8 29 33 *o4 168 36 i7 37? N. 79 34 E t 8 47t 33 43 169 9 ? - 14 11 24 1 S. 77 254 W f 10 29i 34 254 169 45 *5 4*i N 78 534 E J IO -84 35 84 170 34 ' ? Nov . 11 20 4°t N. 8x 26 E c >3 *54 42 544 *75 3 ° ' h - 12 9 23t*( -3. 62 *4t W £ 12 374 43 34 *75 58 Observers, and Remarks. Gregory's Compass. Ship's ditto. Gregory's ditto. Ship's Compass. Knight's ditto. Ship's ditto. Knight's ditto. Ship's ditto , " c Gregory s ditto. j. i Knight's ditto. ) ^ 00K - Ditto. Gregory's Compass. Ditto. Knight's Compass. Gregory's ditto. Knight's ditto. Ditto. Gregory's Compass. Knight's ditto. Ditto. 7 Ship's h Gregory's Comp.) S. E. Ditto. Ship's head N. W. Knight's Compass. Ditto. Gregory's Compass. Ditto. Ship's Compass. Knight's ditto. Ship's ditto. Knight's ditto. Gregory's ditto. Ship's ditto. Knight's ditto. Gregory's ditto. Knight's ditto. Gregory's ditto. Ditto. Ditto. Knight's Compass. Ditto.
pi MX O* W '-CT 1 ON BOARD THE RESOLUTION, 381 * 774 - if Dec. 5 - 6 . 11. 12. lZ- 14. 15- 16 . * 7 " 18. 19. 29. 3 1 ' Altitude of the 0's L. L. Magnetic Azimuth of the 0's center. No.ofObs.J Variation East. Latitude South. Longitude East. 0 0 0 0 ' 0 20 24 r N. 81 55 E. 6 13 264 44 7 176 53 2 3 464 N. 78 39 E. 5 12 51 47 33 180 50 12 53 t S. 63 56 W. 5 12 42 48 6§ 181 20 lZ 1 9 t S. 64 * 3 i W. 4 12 28 49 59 183 38 21 Z 2 L N. 82 384 E. 8 IO 541 52 3 if 188 3 1 22 5 6 4 N. 82 55 E. 5 9 35 55 424 204 34 20 2 44 S. 74 52 | W. 12 8 49 i 55 42 4 204 40 10 4 t 8 . 6i 54 W 6 7 H 55 7 213 0 24 2 74 8. 8/ 554 E. 6 1 20 55 12 2 37 0 22 18I 8 . 85 544 E. 12 3 18 53 21 240 5 ° l 3 22 2 Z 4 64 8 . 8 . 80 78 " 3 t 594 W. W. 6 6 3 3 354 ; i 3 t 53 i 54 242 17 18 16 274 43 8 . 8 . 74 70 154 324 w. w. 10 6 3 4 54 ! 264 53 6 246 10 8 24-r 8 . 58 30 w. 8 4 58 53 13 250 5 15 55 i 8. 78 45 i E. 7 5 74 53 174 252 0 24 20 40 5 8 . 8 . 73 67 3 "i 35 w. w. 8 4 9 IX 544 J 3 1 J *53 29 264 40 '5 >4 o 4 64 8 . 8 . 60 58 144 Zo 4 w. w. 6 6 11 11 '74 j 484 J 53 214 268 2.4 16 334 8. 86 lL E. 8 12 3 i 53 234 269 30 9 8 12f 374 8 . 8. 49 49 3°4 354 W. W. 6 6 13 12 494 564 53 2 3i 270 3 <> -4 16 294 42 | 8. 8. 84 5 6 4 87 204 E. E 6 6 14 i 3 4 4 324 ;53 244 272 28 iZ 12 35 i 84 3 . 3 . 53 5 2 1 It 4 - 7 T W. W. 6 6 16 14 u 4 1 354 J 53 264 2 73 48 16 164 3 . 55 144 W. 6 i 7 374 53 Zv 4 277 30 12 11 2 9 t 44 8 . 8 . 49 47 l ?4 344 w. w. 6 6 18 18 24? ; 154 ' 53 2 s 4 280 58 lZ ^4 8. 86 38 E. 5 18 1 54 ] 19 364 8 . 94 524 E. 6 17 44 l '53 25 282 46 2 Z 59 4 8 . 102 3°4 E. 6 19 4 °r J 16 2 2-g- 8 52 20 W. 6 20 3 1 ? 53 284 *4 581 8 . 49 464 W. 6 21 I oi \ r 5 r 12 16 434 8. 5 2 574 w. 6 20 io| 1 54 434 286 59 14 5 g i 8 . 50 15 w. 6 20 n 4 J l 7 3 r 4 3 . 51 45 w. 6 22 22 7 55 289 20 \ 16 384 8. 50 354 w. 6 22 i 6 i S 3-4 18 454 8. 52 444 w. 6 2 Z 284 7 55 so 293 c 55 ] i 7 23I 8. 49 SH w. 4 24 •5i 5 12 9 8. 41 45 t w. 6 25 224 c 11 2 5 8 444 8 . N. 39 68 53 f 3 °t w. E. 6 6 25 25 46 2 4 t 54 4i 2 95 46 j 26 434 N. 67 1 14 E. 6 25 21 1 I Obstrvers, and Remarks. Very cloudy. Mr. Gilbert. Gregory's compass: cloudy. Gregory's compass: cloudy, and a great sea. Mr. Gilbert: Greg. compass. Knight's compass. Ditto. Knight's compass. Gregory's ditto. Knight's ditto. Gregory's ditto. Knight's ditto. Mr. Pickersgill: G.'s ditto. Ditto. Gregory's compass. Knight's ditto, Gregory's ditto. Knight's ditto. Mr. Gilbert: Greg. ditto. Knight's ditto. Mr. Pickersgill-: with Gregory's compass. r. Gilbert: Greg. ditto.
3^2 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS 1 775* *9 - 22 . 2Z 25 V -- 26. f -31 ■4 Feb. 2 * - 7 Altuude of ihe fit's L. L. Magnetic Azimuth of the fi's center. Z 2 b Variation East. Latitude South. Longitude East. 0 0 ' 0; 0 ' O 0 I 1 20y 12 34! s. s. 41 21 44 49t W. w. 10 6 24 454 23 144 ; 54 41 295 46 18 26^ N. 83 35 E 8 -9 54 55 it 1 2 97 7 20 24-I- N. 80 564 E. 8 i9 474 J I I a 17 o| N. 85 134 E. 10 20 u4 56 424 300 30 19 16 23 124 N. N. 77 ro 7 1 i3 E. E. 4 5 24 36 ; 24 254 : 57 224 306 19 16 124 s. 50 i4 W. 6 23 534 56 274 306 30 12 57# s. 50 3i W. 8 i9 55f 55 3 303 10 22 54 N. 78 10 E. 6 17 42 54 Z 84 3i4 20 29 5 6 4 s. 78 494 W. 12 15 444 53 57\ 320 35 5 2, t s. 73 224 E. 4 12 294 53 56 122 37 18 37! s. 68 50 W. 6 tl 134 54 9 323 IO 19 6 N. 89 0 E. 2 IO I 20 31A N. 8 5 464 E. 6 11 187 '54 20; 323 54 21 31! N. "3 5° E. 5 524 J 11 3i4 l 5 6 s. 64 284 W. 6 14 0 s. 62 45 W. 2 11 42 t >54 474 324 20 12 49 s s. 59 484 W. 3 12 59f , 12 58 14 94 s. N. 88 28s 88 39* E. E. 6 6 1 5 "3i 16 3 ot 54 59* 323 40 19 484 s. 6 9 264 W. 8 >4 154" 54 544 325 37 11 424 s. 83 43i E. 3 10 42:: 54 574 325 25 18 204 s. 74 28 W. 5 9 6 - 17 19T s. 74 i-4 W. 6 7 244 144 327 3° 16 104 s. 71 16 W. 5 8 38 \ *4 214 s. 89 50 E. 5 12 334 57 44 328 58 17 9i 18 33 t s. N. 94 30 84 364 E. E 6 6 ii 374 to 43 t ;59 14 329 0 14 2 X V "5 304 S. s. 89 37 92 454 E. E. 8 8 IO 47 f ? 58 10 Z74 5 5 37f 332 45 *3 56 s 13 334 8. S. 70 50 70 35 80 374 W. W. 3 5 9 49 t 9 154 i 57 48! 333 8 15 58 s. w. 2 4 33* 1 336 38 H 56 s. 79 i5 w. 1 4 207 [57 164 14 94 s. 76 124 w. 6 6 U J >4 304 s. 82 174 w. 8 1 524 ! 58 28 342 5° 18 39 N. 86 3 E. 5 2 427 '9 25s 20 134 N. N. 86 424 83 48 E. E. 6 5 0 464 2 21 >58 29s 344 4° 21 32s N. Lo 49 E 5 3 54 J • 9 3 6 i s. 77 3° E. 6 0 234 ? 58 28 346 44 rr 444 s. 8 Z 5 E. 3 0 504 y> 1 West. • 14 i6 t s. 8 S 54 w f I 8 0 7 t 58 26^ 346 53 Observeri, and Remark*. Knight's Compass. Ditto. Mr. Gilbert. Ship's Compass. 1 The Ship Knight's ditto, i rolled 28°. The Ship rolled 25 0 . Mr. Pickersgill. Greg.Comp, Knight's Comp. Great motion Ditto. Ditto. Mr. Gilbert. Ship's Compass. Ship's Compass. Mr. Clerke. Ship's Compass. Knight's Compass. Ship's ditto. Ditto. Knight's Compass. Ditto. Ship's Compass. Knight's ditto, f Mr. Gilbert. Greg. Comp. I A bad horizon. Bad horizon. Knight's Compass. Gregory's ditto. Knight's ditto. Ditto. Gregory's Compass. Knight's ditto. Mr. Gilbert. Ship's Comp. The same Compass. Mr. Gilbert. 1 Mr. Clerke. i Ship'sCompass. Knight's Compass. Gregory's Compass.}., Ship's ditto. > L Knight's ditto. 3 Knight's Compass. Gregory's dit. Mr.Pickersgill. Knight's Compass. Ditto.
ON BOARD THE RESOLUTION 3 8 .? 1775 - Altitude of the H' I,. L. Magnetic Azimuth of the H's Center. 0 O / n Feb. 9 - IO 57 * s. 79 4 i 4 E 12 284 s. Si 43 t E. ? - 10. 18 39 A 8. 94 19s W j? - 11. 15 5 8 7 8. 85 3 6 ! E. 17 10 A s. 87 of E. 0 - 12. 21 42s N. 78 22s W. 17 3 t 8 . 87 i 4 f E. l8 i 5 t 4 S. 88 59 E. Dropped 360° of Long & - 14. l 3 53 N. 80 51s W. V -.. 16. 16 3 o 4 N. 75 - 3 i 4 W. 23 5 1 S. 89 37 t E. ? 17 - 14 5 o 4 N. 76 29 W. $ --- 2 1. 16 3 t N. 66 15s W. h - 2 5 - 24 564 8 . 82 49s E. F -- 28. 12 1 SA N. 64 gf vv. 9 344 N. 67 22i W. 8 March 1. 20 534 S. 77 3 ° E. 2? 2 z 4 8. 78 50 E. n - 2. 4 * 3 i N. 73 ® 3 i W. '3 19! S. 7 ° 32s E. r -- 3 - 18 21,-4 N. 57 32s W. 16 37 r 8. 74 28 E. B 6. 10 401 8. 70 28 E. s 8. 7 "4 8. 68 51 E. r - 10. 7 514 14 . 67 33 i w. 0 - 12. 7 18s 14 . 66 74. W. v - iZ- 6 2 if 14 . 66 361 W. F - 14 - 9 4 i 4 8. 71 36s E. n 16. 7 1 44 8. 73 2 if E. ? - 17 - 12 * 9 t N. 61 7 f W. 7 37 i S. 73 5 i 4 E. U April 27. 9 574 N. 84 49 t E. ? - 28. 9 35 f N. 86 15 E. -- 29. 9 94 N. 85 3 ° E. O - ZO. 9 if N. 84 34 t E. 12 6| 14 . 82 487 E. S May 2. 7 53 N. 84 30 E. 8 -- 3 - 6 554 14 . 84 26s E. % - 4 - 4 45 t 4 N. 52 164 W. h 6 . 9 487 N. 81 53 i E. 13 334 N. 80 i T E. O - 7 - 7 iof N. 53 7 \ W. 7 5 8 f N. 83 7 f E. v 8. 18 54 t N. 76 164 E. ■ 2 ! o o C "6 6 io 8 6 2 6 5 tu< 12 6 8 xo IO IO 6 6 2 3 8 2 8 IO 22 21 21 20 2 2 22 22 20 21 20 1 9 20 18 17 18 16 16 1 7 ■5 -4 l 5 -4 Variation West. O o I 3 4 3 4 4 le, 6 12 13 13 19 24 23 23 24 24 22 22 23 1 6 4 2 f 4°f 4 l i 167 2:: 214 354 Latitude South. Longitude East. O ' 0 rx. 1 " co 348 l6 58 157 350 6 158 23 352 56 58 20 353 15 58 2 354 29 Oofervers, and Remarks. Knight's Compass. Ship's ditto. Knight's ditto. Ditto. Ditto. Mr. Gilbert. and repeated $ February the 14th. A great sea. Ship's Comp. 507 56 144 4 5 ° 7 54 24 s 6 30 42s 54 214 8 6 16s , 54 257 9 20 84 54 26 19 15 77 49 371 29 32 aot 4 ° 48 33 36 12 34 45 534 3 1 0 2 3 i 45 34 30 45 564 44 10 3 ° 3 574 43 33 29 40 4 i 4 43 437 29 15 574 4 i 33 26 36 3 °i 42 of 25 25 504 40 47 t 23 50 94 38 404 24 10 2 37 0 22 24 46 35 204 22 -7 it 34 554 ' 2 i IO 304 35 64 20 50 224 34 58 20 40 44 33 4 16 43 1 3 i 454 14 13 46 3 ° 29 ii 52 42 ? 29 214 10 12 7 29 21 10 12 424 27 127 7 11 134 26 42 \ 6 42 8 26 25 6 30 17; 23 444 3 404 36 23 447 3 404 574 23 n4 3 0 \ 234 22 2 34 2 124 21 21 i4 0 33 Gregory's Compass. Knight's ditto. Mr. Gilbert. Ship's Comp. Knight's Compass. Very hazy. Knight's Compass, Ship's ditto.
384 ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS Altitude .Vlagnetic Azimuth of (he ivf's Center. z c Varia- Latitude bongitude * 775 * L . C c c Weft. North, Weft. Observers, and Remarks. 0 O cr 0 0 ' * $ May 9 - 7 224 N. 54 59 '" w - 6 13 n 4 20 3'4 O •4 Gregory's Compass. Mr. Burr. 8 57 -iV N. 81 254 E. 6 14 554 19 49 O 48 n - 11. 3 i 7 f N - 55 47s W. 6 ! 4 0 18 441 2 23 10 5 8 i N. 80 22| E- 8 13 57 18 324 2 35 ? - 12. 4 j 7 t N - 55 3 * 4 W. 8 ! 3 3 8 4 18 2 '4 2 45 7 534 N. 81 20 E. 6 1 3 334 *7 55 3 5 h - IZ- 16 531 N. 77 32s E. 6 *3 5 i 4 16 564 '4 2 O 14. 7 26s N. 81 44 E. 6 *3 . 15 ° 16 lO'j 4 55 S J 7 - 8 524 N. 54 26* W. 6 12 i8i 15 554 5 49 On board the Ihip at St. Helena. D - 22. 24 3 N. 71 1 E. 5 12 124 14 45! 7 40 F - 2Z- 8 204 N. 77 304 E 8 11 244 13 454 9 40 8 24. 9 10 2 I 54 ° N. )6 N. 76 474 E. 554 E. 6 6 10 564- 11 214. I 12 9 10 48 Mr. Gilbert. n - 25. 9 iof N. 77 35 E. 6 11 13 10 21 11 40 ? 26. 8 2 b 4 N. 77 5 6 4 E. 6 11 94 8 384 12 45 h -,- 27. 10 3 2 4 N. 77 204 E, 6 10 42-I- 7 55 13 45 O - 28. 3 24-?° N. 56 4 ^-W. 12 10 544 Taken on board the ship, at Amplit. N. 57 20 W. 1 11 21-4 7 56 14 30 anchor, off the Island of As- F - - Z 2 . Ditto. N. 57 16 W. 1 11 74 - cension. 8 - ZI. 5 224 N. 55 464. w. 6 11 64 . 7 5 o 4 *4 37 11 334 N- 75 49 s E. 6 10 94 7 77 15 6 ■y. Tune I. 9 8i N. 75 474 E. 6 9 394 6 45 ° 16 55 ? -- 2. 14 2 54 N. 74 i 4 E. 6 9 8 6 29 18 55 h -- 3 - lO 124 N. 73 41 4 E. 6 8 11 4 6 47 21 8 O 4 - 8 3 2 N. 72 5 °4 E. 6 6 444 5 434 23 i 5 I) -- 5 - 8 4 t N. 71 574 E. 6 5 4 74 5 i 4 f 25 35 Knight's compass.' Gregory's ditto. F ■ 6 . 6 574 N. 70 394 E. lO 4 22ij 5 27 35 8 581 N. 70 4 9l E. 8 4 514 8 - 7 - 8 364 N. 69 454 E. 9 3 404 3 59 29 10 it 8. 9 ut N. 67 414 E. 8 1 254 3 434 3 1 35 ¥ -- 9 '7 571 N. 62 414 w. 6 1 374 ] 47 i 32 33 Ship's compass. 16 34 N. 64 344 W. 6 , 0 2 Z 4 - 3 Knight's ditto. 6 364 N. 66 434 E. 6 0 144 2 24 32 12 T? --- 10. 1 3 if N. 64 5*4 W. 8 1 2 1 3 + 32 0 14 2-4 N. 66 374 E. 8 0 394 0 354 32 0 North. O -- 11. '7 10 N. 64 22 W. 10 1 25 0 1 3 3- gi 50 9 11 N. 68 94 E. 7 1 224 i 274 3 1 40 D 12, i 7 254 N. 63 59 iW. 6 2 2 i 4 2 13 3 1 36 Very cloudy. $ - 13 10 364 N. 69 20 E. 4 2 1 5 T 4 234 3 i 28 8 --- 14 '7 13 i N. 65 33 l w - 12 1 264 4 36- 3 i 20 ? - 16. to 554 N. 62 8fW. 8 ' 5 1 H 5 11 i 30 14 h -.- J 7 10 5 8 f N. 61 45 W. 1 5 32 6 14 3 ° 1 O .- 18. 9 2/4 N. ,71 334 E 8 4 16 6 594 3 ° 10 " - 19. 9 34 t N. 72 12°- E. 7 4 47 "s- 7 53 -? 3 ° 40 ' 20 10 334 N. 71 554 E. 6 4 h 4 9 9 32 18 ' I
a WA'Sk A f&a&.j / , . ,, /7 y''T'7. L)ki A.* 5 --/#* L 7 / *"* l ? ■ / ' ' s*n>/rj rrii/ - j-'iS'i *' ****** Ss- 2 . * 77 '^ yytjC fs 4 5 ' */ ■l y l6' 0 ' ^- 7 - ex**f ht.nxvt* HeiriJyt - '^' 2 ^'* ^ ' ^"o(W, /It-**.' - / 2 i"**r 4 ^ ,^> - l^,'l°- •?! fff 2 - H'i- L. ^o-^$ ff' S~'+v*i . s*Htsj®A* VtJtiU-y fit • e £uiiti'n- $&y' / y ir-tA** Aw*-*Juw~* "ttrfrii ftionfl** ? i*v*■ ***j **** r^rtA/v 1 *7 '**£,*+ cu/-

ON BOARD THE RESOLUTION 3 8 5 -775- Altitude of the K's L, I,. Magnetic Azimuth of the Center. 0 V* c Variation West. Latitude North. Longitude West. Observers, and Remarks. O 0 0 ' 0 0 L June 2 1. !i 2 15s N. 7 1 28 E. 10 3 23 IO 47i 33 30 ? 2 3- 1 r u N. 72 2C4 E. 7 3 57 4 1 4 1 Jt 36 0 i? -- 24. "7 424 N. 6 5 57k w. 8 3 46s 14 564 36 -5 D - 2 b. 13 0 N. 65 35 'w. 6 3 41 i& 15 38 34 7 23 t N. 72 30 E. 7 4 40 >9 8i 38 57 F --■ 27. 9 74 N. 64 20-f- W. 8 4 44- •9 577 39 -5 / ' 9 35 4 N. 72 > 6 4 E. 6 3 374 20 524 39 33 u - 29. '5 I 4i N. 65 504 W. 6 5 sz 23 36 42 10 16 3H N. 77 47 r E. 2 6 84 24 424 42 37 ? - 3°- H 5 H N. 6 5 3f W. 6 6 4 t 25 364 42 52 7 4 °f N. 73 57i E. 10 5 581 26 344 41 5 h I. 12 44 N. f> 4 49i W. 6 5 36s 27 334 4- 10 8 42f N. 75 3f E. 6 6 354 28 134 41 25 G - 2. 18 324 N. 80 iof E. 10 6 32s 29 42 41 3 v 3- 10 54? N. 77 294 E. 8 7 43 30 524 40 37 . L 5- *7 424 N. 64 i4 W. 6 9 53 32 384 39 58 10 57k N. 79 E. 6 9 20 33 2 39 58 ■4 --. 6. 16 24? N. 64 64 W. 6 9 144 33 104 39 574 10 J3f N. 79 10 E. 6 9 33 33 22; 39 48 ? 7- 12 42s N. 62 *7i W. 6 8 58 33 394 39 44 T? - 8. 4 i3i N. 55 47 k W. 6 9 47 34 184 39 43 14 l6 § N. 83 234 E. 8 10 53f 34 52 39 45 O -- 9- 14 S 2 ! N. 62 37 k W. 8 10 v-J. O 6 35 114 39 40 12 53 1 N. 81 53~r E. 6 10 87 35 284 39 0 r - 10 . *5 164 N. 62 52 T W. 7 10 337 36 04 38 20 F - 1 I. 6 194 N. 54 524 w. 7 12 84 31 94 35 20 L - 12. 11 34f N. 56 27 w. 10 14 424 38 -3-4 32 10 4 - 13- 12 2 34 N. 55 39i w. 6 16 174 38 33 29 -5 ? -_ I4. 18 424 N. 81 364 E. 6 21 19 38 3-4 28 33 ( Taken on board the ship in [Fay al Bay. See also p. 140. S - 19. 15 -9i N. 86 48I E. 8 17 33 39 84 25 50 ? ■-- 2 i. 10 55t N. 56 4§ W. 10 16 -7i 39 26 23 36 b 22. 9 39° N. 54 44°" W. 6 16 574 39 544 22 -3 G - 23- 14 5t N. 57 544 w. 8 17 447 4i -2t >9 42 r 24. 11 49 r'c N. 54 57? w. 10 18 594 42 29 1 7 45 $ 25. 8 5-4 N. So 404 w. 9 20 39° 44 6 -5 50 16 344 S. 79 --4 E. w. 8 21 534 45 5 -4 35 •u - 27. 15 2 74 N. 59 1? 8 '9 404 47 3 2 t 10 37 ? - 28. 14 42| N. 58 52 w. 10 -9 roi; 48 2 74 7 58 b 29. 16 i'4 N. 60 45 w. 3 -9 50 £ 1 0 14 IO.4 As. 58 2i4 w. 6 -9 28 \ 4 THE E N D
I \ E R ' R A T A. Page 2, In the title to the right-hand Col. on the lower part of the page, fox gains read h/es. Page 65, in the title to the right-hand Col. at the top of the page, for gains read loses. For page 136, read page 139. Page 281, Sept 23d, Col. 6, for 2b. *5' *b ..*/ ^' 4 -- Page 282, Oct. totb, Col. 3, for rt h. 47 5'', read 21 h. 7' 33^4. Page 282, July 20th, Col. 3, for oh. 34.' 10", read oh. 34' 40". Page 3,1, Aug. 4th, Col. lo, for 19° u'|, read 18" 31'i-, Page 311, Aug. 6th, Col. 10, for 18° 34'j, read 19' 14'^ Page 328, Longitude of Cape Noir, Col. 9, for 287® 56'!, read 286° 56'!. In many places dele e in Mr. Bayly's name. I



V s r 'i LM WMm * . #$■, MM )j\?Sytw&M }fp!&M WMM '■'-'is-iW0 WmSm 'SiSfi fc MrZMWW KKM ■ WO^WKUNV KWU ZMWKKW mmm WWB DMA